---
title: Angie Jones Chats With Kent About Automated Visual Testing
slug: angie-jones-chats-with-kent-about-automated-visual-testing
simpleCastId: e3804e5e-618b-431d-b49d-da441834e4ee
description:
  'Angie Jones chats with Kent about the advantages of visual testing your app
  with Applitools'
season: 2
number: 8
keywords:
  [
    'react',
    'teaching',
    'career',
    'web development',
    'dev',
    'software',
    'education',
    'javascript',
    'mentorship',
  ]
metaImage: './angie-jones-card.png'
guestPhoto: './angie-jones.png'
---

import Transcript from 'components/podcast/transcript'
import Resources from 'components/podcast/resources'
import Homeworks from 'components/podcast/homeworks'
import Guest from 'components/podcast/guest'
import PhotoAngie from './angie-jones.png'

Visual testing is like snapshot testing with images. So when your application is
in the state that you want it to be in, you verify this as a human being, and
then utilize tools to take a picture of your application in that state.

Visual testing isn't a new concept, but the technology was previously flaky. But
now, Applitools is using AI and machine learning to be able only to detect the
things that we care about as human beings.

Visual testing catches issues that your scripts won't detect, and Applitools is
especially powerful at it. The processing gets offloaded onto the Applitools
servers, and snapshots of your app are tested on multiple platforms so you can
be confident that no visual bugs get created anywhere!

<Homeworks>

Go through Angie's Visual Testing Course:
[Automated Visual Testing: A Fast Path To Test Automation Success](https://testautomationu.applitools.com/automated-visual-testing-a-fast-path-to-test-automation-success)

</Homeworks>

<div style={{display: 'grid', gridGap: 10, gridTemplateColumns: 'repeat(auto-fill, minmax(300px, 1fr))'}}>

<Resources>

- [Test Automation University](https://testautomationu.applitools.com/)
- [Automated Visual Testing: A Fast Path To Test Automation Success](https://testautomationu.applitools.com/automated-visual-testing-a-fast-path-to-test-automation-success)

</Resources>

<Guest name="Angie Jones" image={PhotoAngie}>

- [Twitter](https://twitter.com/techgirl1908?ref_src=twsrc%5Egoogle%7Ctwcamp%5Eserp%7Ctwgr%5Eauthor)
- [Github](https://github.com/angiejones)
- [Website](http://angiejones.tech/)
- [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/angiejones/)

</Guest>

</div>

---

## Transcript

<Transcript>

**Kent C. Dodds:** Hello friends, this is your friend \[Kent C. Dodds
00:00:02\], and I'm joined by my friend, Angie Jones. Say hi, Angie.

**Angie Jones:** Hello.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Super happy to have you here with us, Angie. Angie, and I ...
Actually, you know what, I don't remember how we got introduced to each other.
It was definitely over a year ago though. Was it ... it was through Applitools,
I'm guessing, right?

**Angie Jones:** I think it was just through Twitter verse. Just kind of running
in the same circles or whatever.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah, yeah, exactly. I make most of my friends these days on
Twitter now. But Angie works at a company called Applitools. I'm super psyched
about what Applitools is doing and I'm sure we'll talk about Applitools a little
bit more today. But I would like for everybody to get to know you, Angie, as I
do. And so could you introduce yourself a little bit, tell us things about
yourself, whether it's your technical things that you're interested in, or
personal or whatever you'd like to share.

**Angie Jones:** Yeah, sure. So I'm a senior developer advocate. Again, I work
at Applitools, which is a startup that focuses on automated visual testing. So
that's my niche, testing is my niche, specifically automated testing. So I've
been doing this for the bulk of my career. Had a couple of stints in feature
development, but I really, really love automated testing and feel that, you
know, I just get this bigger, overall picture of the product and what we're
doing and our customers. As well as gets a flex my development muscles more,
because I get to architect frameworks and solutions and stuff. So I've been in
the industry for quite a while now. Worked at some really big companies, such as
IBM and Twitter. So I'm enjoying the startup life now. Something different for
me, developer advocacy is also something different for me. So a couple of years
ago I started just preaching the gospel, which is testing, and did that at
conferences all over the world and workshops and blog posts. So developer
advocacy was a natural next step for me. Loving it so far.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Awesome. So when you say like preaching the testing gospel,
that makes me think of something that somebody once said, it was Ryan Florence,
he said, "Sometimes it feels like testing is a religion, and if so then I belong
to the church of Kent C. Dodds." Yeah, it's kind of funny, but it really ...
There's a lot about testing, a lot of opinions about that. I went to the Assert
JS conference last year, and it was great, all about testing JavaScript. And
what was interesting about it was how every talk seemed to contradict the one
before it. So many opinions there. But, you know, there's not a whole lot ... I
don't hear people talking quite as much about visual testing, and there are some
really compelling arguments for investing time in getting the confidence out of
visual testing. So, Angie, could you tell us a little bit about what even is
visual testing, and I'm curious why you got so into a visual testing.

**Angie Jones:** Yeah. Okay, so visual testing is essentially like snapshot
testing with images. So when your application is in the state that you want it
to be in, and you verify this as a human being, you can utilize tools to take a
picture of your application in that state. So this is mostly page by page basis.
So let's say you're on a certain page, you've done some scenario, and you want
to capture this. You can capture this with an image. And then as part of
regression tests, every time you run this test, then it'll take another picture
and compare the two. So it's not something that's really new, it's actually been
awhile for ... been around for a while now. However, the technique that was used
in the past was pretty flaky. So it would do like a pixel-to-pixel comparison of
these two images and determine if there's any difference between them.  
Well, you know like I know, on different resolutions things can change. There's
also things that are happening in our application that can change from one
screenshot to the next, such as cursors blinking or things like that. So
Applitools has used a new technology, they're using AI and machine learning to
be able to only detect the things that we care about as human beings. So I've
been doing animation for a very long time and I've been doing it the traditional
way. I use tools like Selenium WebDriver and JUnit for assertions and things.
And I thought I was pretty good at it, you know, got to principal level as an
automation engineer. And then I was introduced to visual testing. So I'm always
looking at new tools and, you know, because I speak a lot and I write a lot.  
So I'm always looking for what's hot on the market and what can help solve some
of the challenges that lots of automation engineers and developers face. So I
looked at visual testing with Applitools and I realized, Kent, how much I was
not covering in my tests. And I thought it was pretty hot stuff, but when I
looked at all that it looks at, you know, basically the saying; a pictures is
worth a thousand words. This is literally like a picture's worth a thousand
assertions. Say, for example, let's take a scenario where we added something to
the shopping cart and maybe change the quantity to three, right?  
So if I was writing a test for this, I would make sure that, you know, probably
the subtotal in the final total is okay. That would be my two assertions there.
But then, when you look at visual testing and how it's looking at the entire
page, what if there were any exceptions or errors that were thrown on that page?
I don't have anything in my code that's looking for that. What if the thumbnail
on the image is not there, what if by me increasing the quantity, that distorted
the way that it was displayed and now it's kind of all jumbled and overlapping.
None of that would be caught by my scripts because my script is simply looking
at the Dom. With visual testing I get basically anything I could think of plus
more that's being validated. And it's usually like one or two lines of code.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah. Yeah. And there's something that I like to say a lot,
which is, the more your test resemble the way your software is used, the more
confidence they can give you. And that fits in perfectly with visual testing
because with traditional unit and integration tests where you have specific
assertions, like you're saying, you can structure your things so you ... Okay
user click on this and then do that, but maybe the user can't click on that
thing because it's hidden behind another Dom node. Or maybe there's some color
contrast issues because some CSS is applying, you didn't expect it to. All of
those things that you just said.  
And so, you can get a huge amount of confidence with visual testing. So my next
question is, and this is often when we're talking about these different types of
testing, there always are trade offs. Or are there? That's, I guess my question
is, it seems like visual testing gets you a huge amount of confidence and so why
shouldn't I just do visual testing for all of my tests? Is there a reason to
try, or to mix in visual testing with my current testing strategy or should I
just replace my current strategy with visual testing?

**Angie Jones:** Yeah, what I love about the Applitools API is that it
integrates with whatever you have. So if you're using Cypress or Selenium or
\[Jest 00:08:35\] or whatever you're using, then there's all of these various
SDK's that will just integrate with what you have. So I do some workshops and I
talk about the pros and cons of these different strategies. Do I replace
everything or do I mix it in? And I show how you can couple it with traditional
assertions as well in some cases. For example, that visual check that's going to
check the entire page, that's great in a lot of cases. But there may be some
cases where I just don't want the entire page validated, right? Maybe it's under
construction and so, you know, I don't care about the whole right side of the
page. Or maybe we have advertisements right there and every time that's going to
be different, right?  
So you can do lots of different strategies using this API. You can narrow your
scope down and only verify a certain DIV or other element on the page, so maybe
I only want to verify that shopping cart part and not the whole thing. Or you
can ignore certain regions of the page as well. So if I know that the ad is
always shown in this particular part of the page, then I can mask that and say,
"Don't verify this part," right? But when I do that, then there's some give and
take there. So me, narrowing the scope of what I'm verifying, then maybe my
picture doesn't have a thousand assertions. Maybe now that's 50 assertions, you
know what I mean? So in cases like those, you can couple it with other things
that you want to assert on. I often tell people to go down the test automation
pyramid so you don't have to do everything at the UI. You can verify a lot of
data points and things like that at maybe the API level, and then do one visual
assertion that just makes sure everything looks right.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah, I think that that makes a lot of sense. And one thing
that I like, I think snapshot testing is a good parallel to this, as you were
saying earlier. And one danger that I've seen that people have is they'll make
giant snapshots for their stuff and those snapshots break a lot. With
Applitools, when it breaks, normally you're glad that it broke because it's
preventing you from something thanks to all the smarts that Applitools has. But
another, I guess, trade off that you can have with visual testing is, there's a
little bit of indirection between where the assertion lives and where the
assertion fails. Right? Or at least where the specific thing that you're trying
to assert. So like some people would make the mistake with snapshots to say,
"Hey, that cart number total should increase by quantity of one," whatever the
total amount should increase by whatever.  
And so they'll take a snapshot of the whole thing, and that assertion lives
within that snapshot. But when it fails, people don't know whether or not that
failure is a bad thing because they're not sure what the intended version is.
And so there's a little less of a, you know, a specificity there. Which is why,
from where I sit, I think it makes a lot of sense that Applitools is integrated
with the existing testing tools that people are using. So that they can have
those specific assertions, but then also get all the benefits of the visual
testing, where most people aren't testing anything that has to do with the way
that their applications laid out, you know, CSS-wise or whatever. Or whatever
the case may be.

**Angie Jones:** Right. And that's a huge miss when people don't do this.
There's so many people who don't. And because of this, I see these visual bugs
all over the place. And a lot of times I'll talk to people and they think, oh,
that's pretty cool, but you know, that is not applicable for their application.
Or that is a nice to have, but as we're developing for more and more devices and
view ports, that's where those visual bugs come in. So, yes, your app looks
great on the web, but how does it look on the phone or the tablet or all these
different things? And when you have all these different permutations it's
really, really difficult to test for all of those things. And that's where stuff
starts breaking. So I see it all the time. Companies, big and small, all of your
favorite tech giants have these visual bugs all the time.  
I was looking at one not too long ago on Instagram, and this was a sponsored ad,
Kent, and all of the text was jumbled up and overlaying on top of each other in
the upper left corner, and everything else was white space. And this was
sponsored. Somebody paid for this. Right? And so, I think about their testing
strategy. Anytime I see things like this, as a tester, I start thinking about,
well what was the testing strategy?  
And it's hard to blame them because I bet they probably had automated tests for
them. But your automated test is, is this text present? Yes it is. Is this one?
Is this one? Is this one? And they could have had 10 assertions in that test and
all of them been true, because the stuff exists in a Dom and so they missed this
and this went out to production where they're losing money as a sponsored ad.
They have to refund this customer. And not only lose money but also trust. I
don't know about you, but I probably would be a little bit hesitant to do
another ad on Instagram because I think they don't test their stuff.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah, that's a very good point. And so, Angie, I hope you
allow me to just geek out a little bit on Applitools for just a second, because
there's one thing ... I'm not sure how to lead you into this. And so I'm going
to just mention probably my favorite thing about Applitools, just conceptually.
And you can stop me and correct me if I miss any of this, or miss-explain this,
but one of the things that I love about Applitools is the cross browser support.
So let's say that you just want to use Jest for your testing and that's all in
JS Dom. And so you're, first off, you're not actually testing in a real browser,
which can be problematic, and you can't do any cross browser testing either. But
as soon as you throw in Applitools assertions in there, this is what you get.  
So Applitools, when you say, "Okay, I want you to snapshot this Dom," Applitools
will say, "Okay, let me take all of that Dom HTML, and all that CSS, everything
that's in our document right now, and I will upload it to Applitools servers."
So it's not actually taking a snapshot on your local machine, it uploads, it's
Applitools servers. And then Applitools pulls all of that up in all of the
different browsers, and a bunch of different screen sizes all over the place,
and then snapshots that. And so here are the two things that makes this so
awesome. First off, it makes your test still run really fast, because typically
visual testing is really slow.  
But because we can offload that to Applitools then it's very fast. The second
thing that's awesome about this is, now you're getting a huge amount of
confidence that your code or that ... Yeah, what's produced the Dom output,
that's produced by your code, looks good across different browsers and different
screen sizes. And you only had to run that test one time, in one place. You
didn't have to run it on SauceLabs in 30 different permutations of different
browsers and stuff, which takes a lot of time. And so those are two things that
I just absolutely love about Applitools. It's fantastic. Did I mess any of that
up Angie, or do you have \[crosstalk 00:16:36\]

**Angie Jones:** No, that was great. That was great. So it's called the visual
grid and, yeah, it does just that; executes it one time. Let's say it runs it on
like Chrome, for example. And let's say that your scenario had 10 steps, right?
So after the eighth step you maybe do some assertions, this is where you call
Applitools in, everything before that was set-up type of stuff, getting the
system in the certain state. And then maybe your last two steps are just
cleanup. So instead of running that across all of the configurations that you
support, you just run it the one time, it executes those eight steps, and then
when you call Applitools, it takes all of the artifacts like you mentioned; so
the Dom, CSS, anything that's pertinent to the application. It grabs that and
then splashes it across all of the configurations that you've specified you like
to run against, in that state.  
So instead of executing those eight steps across 20 different configurations, we
don't have to do that. Let's just take the state of the app and see how it's
displayed across all of these different things. So yeah, like you said, it's
lightning fast. It saves so much time on test execution. And so this could then
be a part of your CI jobs where you need all of your tests to be really fast.
Before, a lot of people were doing the visual testing, but they would do it in a
separate build, maybe that ran once a day or something like that. But with this
visual grid, that now speeds up the test, it takes exactly the same amount of
time to run on one config as it would on, say, like 50 configs. Because they're
all running in parallel and you're not executing those same steps across all of
them. So, yeah, it's really amazing. Magic even.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah, it's honestly a stroke of genius there. That just so
awesome. So I do have a question about that, though. So when I have that
assertion that says, "Okay, this should match," now I have this whole awesome
dashboard on Applitools that I can go look at and compare and approve new
snapshots and that. What that experience? Can you describe that experience in
the tool? So if I'm using Jest or Cypress, for example, do I see that failure
locally or do I have to go to this, to the dashboard to see that? And if I see
it locally, what does that error message look like? How long does that assertion
take, typically? If I have a test that takes two seconds to run and then I add
one Applitools assertion in there, is that going to impact the speed of my test?
Those kinds of things?

**Angie Jones:** Yeah. Okay. So let's take a scenario. So you've written the
test, you run it. Let's say that this is a regression run and it finds a
failure. So the test will fail and it will throw differences found exception,
and it'll give you a link in the error message. So you'll see this on the
console, that takes you to the Applitools dashboard. So all of the images are
stored in the Applitools cloud, and then there's this nice little dashboard that
keeps all of your test runs and all of your visual DIF's. So you click on the
link that takes you to the dashboard, you can then see that test and it shows
you the baseline image, which is the one that you ran the very first time, and
you're okay with how the app looks. And then it'll show you, that'll be on the
left side, and then on the right side it'll show you the new image.  
And then it'll be like some highlights on it that shows you what was different
between the images. So you can see exactly what changed. Oh, okay, so they moved
... the logo is not there, or something like that. So say like your logo is not
there or something is just kind of jumbled and distorted, you would then fail
the test in the dashboard. So I really like this because a lot of times people
ask me about machine learning and AI and do I think AI is going to take our jobs
and stuff like this. So I really lik that AI is assisting me right here, and
saying, "Hey, human, we found some differences, but we're not really smart
enough to know if this is bad or not. Can you come, oh smart human being, and
they look at it?"  
And that just, I don't know, it's an ego boost for me. So I go in and, yeah, if
it's a failure then there's this thumbs up, thumbs down. So I'll do a thumbs
down, and then that'll be marked as a failure. There's also all of these
integrations with things like \[inaudible 00:21:28\] and stuff like that. So I
can annotate the image and assign a bug or assign it to someone or make comments
on it. So it's really cool. But let's say that it was a change that we intended.
So we moved the logo from the left side to the right side of the application.
Okay. All right, so this is become a change in my app. I then press the thumbs
up to let Applitools know, oh, okay, yeah. Thank you for letting me know about
the change. I would like to update my baseline.  
When I click the thumbs up, it replaces the new image with ... The old image,
with the new one. So the baseline is then changed to the new run. So that's how
it works. There is a little bit extra time added to your test if you're going to
put in a visual check. But that decreases by a lot if you use the visual grid.
Because that approach is just much faster. But if you're not using the grid,
let's say you only want to run against one environment, like, "Oh, I only care
about Chrome," or whatever, then it will add a little bit of time to your tests.
And I've talked to some people, because you know we like things fast as
developers, so I've talked to some people like, "Do you not care about this
time? This extra time?" And they was like, "No, because it's just checking so
many other things." So it's kind of like a price that people are willing to pay
because it gives them that confidence to deploy.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah, absolutely. I find it funny ... So I like to lean more
heavily to the integration test side of things. And I find it funny when people
say, "Well, that's going to make your test take a little bit longer." And yeah,
okay, it'll take a couple of seconds longer I guess? And I'm more confident with
what I'm shipping. I'd be willing to spend a couple extra minutes waiting for my
test to finish to be confident I'm shipping. And so I'm actually a little bit
curious on the process because I've never used Applitools in a team setting
before. And so, if you just answer this question really quick, if I'm working on
a new feature, like moving that logo over, and I'm running all the ... Do you
find people typically running these tests locally? And if you do, then I say,
"Okay, I'm going to say update that baseline," but then anybody else who's
currently also running these tests on their machine, they don't have my changes
yet. And so now, are their tests going to start breaking? Or what's that
workflow typically?

**Angie Jones:** Yeah. So in the dashboard, the tests are identified by a number
of criteria. So the name of the test as well as the browser or device, so this
works on web or mobile, and the resolution. So all of those things coupled
together is the identifier for a test. So if I run this test locally using that
same dimensions or whatever, then that will correlate to the test that
Applitools already has. So if you running that same thing, then we're talking to
the same test, if that makes sense. Right?

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah.

**Angie Jones:** So if I update that with the new thing, then you'll have those
changes as well, because we're sharing this team space in the dashboard. What's
also great, like that whole logo example, so this would be like a maintenance
nightmare if you think about this. Because if you move the logo from the left
side to the right side, all of your tests that took pictures where the logo was,
all of these will now fail. So this is another way that Applitools uses AI to
find that failure and then look through all of your failures to see if there's
the same failure across multiple tests. And then I only can, I can just change
it one time. I can say, "Okay, oh yeah, the logo moved, great. Can you just fix
that in all of my baselines that have that problem?" And it'll go through and do
that. So that's really cool.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah, that's brilliant. So the process of getting that change
applied across my application, I know how that works with code because I make a
pull request, people review the pull request, they merge it. But how do I say,
"Okay, now that this has been merged, that new baseline is correct." What's the
process there? Do you integrate with GitHub and say, "Okay, when this pull
request is merged, all of its snapshots are the new baseline," or how does that
typically work \[crosstalk 00:26:23\]

**Angie Jones:** Yeah. Yeah. So we keep what's called a UI version control. So
think of version control for your code before your baseline images. So we keep a
history of all of the baselines for a particular test, and we do integrate with
GitHub, so you can go in and like say, "Yeah, okay, and once this is merged then
is my new baseline." Let's say that you were doing some kind of AB testing or
something like that, and now you want to go with A, so you want to go back to a
previous baseline. You can also restore that as well.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Wow. Boy that's powerful stuff.

**Angie Jones:** I know, it's so mature.

**Kent C. Dodds:** I remember trying to set up visual testing a couple of years
ago and it just was nowhere near this. A tough failure, one after the other
because some pixels were off, it was just outrageous, bananas. So, Angie, it has
been a pleasure to chat with you. We're coming down on our time. Is there
anything else that you wanted to talk about that we didn't get a chance to?

**Angie Jones:** No. So I do have more information about this on my blog, as
well as other testing strategies and techniques. So I don't just talk about
visual testing, but the whole shebang. Testing in CI, all of this good stuff. So
my blog is angiejones.tech and also Director of Test Automation University,
which is a platform that we launched this year. And it contains free courses on
all things test automation. So I do have a course there on visual testing in
different languages, Java, JavaScript, C Sharp, whatever. So whatever fancies
your boat, you can go and check that out. We also have courses on all of the
tools and techniques that have to do with test automation.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Very cool. So, yeah, for our homework, for everybody, the
call to action for this episode, Angie has this awesome visual testing course on
Applitools and it's totally free and it's called Automated Visual Testing: A
Fast Path to test Automation Success. And it's just about an hour, 18 minutes
long, I think is what you said, Angie. So it's a pretty quick one and it'll,
like, if you want to get into this a little bit more than you can go through
that and learn a lot more about visual testing. Fantastic stuff. Gives you tons
of confidence, so I definitely recommend that people give that a look. So,
Angie, where's the best place for people to reach you online?

**Angie Jones:** Yeah, I'm on Twitter all day long, so you can hit me up
@techgirl1908, or on my website, angiejones.tech where I blog about test
automation strategies and techniques.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Great. Awesome. So thank you, Angie, for giving us some of
your time today to chat about testing, something near and dear to my heart as
well. And I hope everybody has a wonderful day and takes this opportunity to get
better at getting confidence with shipping their apps. So thank you so much,
Angie.

**Angie Jones:** Thanks, Kent.

**Kent C. Dodds:** See ya.

**Angie Jones:** All right. Bye bye.

</Transcript>
