---
title: Henry Zhu Chats With Kent About The Human Side Of Open-Source
slug: henry-zhu-chats-with-kent-about-the-human-side-of-open-source
simpleCastId: e6791b6e-9928-4b6b-8adf-75e6f42ec547
description:
  'Henry Zhu chats with Kent about his transition into being a project
  maintainer, and the responsibilities that he had to take on.'
season: 2
number: 4
keywords:
  [
    'react',
    'teaching',
    'career',
    'web development',
    'dev',
    'software',
    'education',
    'javascript',
    'mentorship',
  ]
metaImage: './henry-zhu-card.png'
guestPhoto: './henry-zhu.png'
---

import Transcript from 'components/podcast/transcript'
import Resources from 'components/podcast/resources'
import Homeworks from 'components/podcast/homeworks'
import Guest from 'components/podcast/guest'
import PhotoHenry from './henry-zhu.png'

Henry Zhu's transition from a programing role to a more managerial role as
Babel's maintainer has been hard. As programmers, we tend to value our work
based on the number of commits or pushing features. When you are a manager,
you're not writing much code anymore.

There's still an expectation that maintainers should be writing code. Still,
maintainers also have to triage and merge things, release process, onboard,
market, write documentation, test, make videos, and give talks. Because of all
this, a maintainer's time is best spent figuring out how to get more people
involved with a project.

To get people interested, the maintainer has to do the job of showing people
what's possible. You have to be involved in the community, and you have to like
it. At a fundamental level, open-source is about service, serving other people
in the community, giving back, and not expecting anything in return.

<Homeworks>

Find a way to do one thing to contribute to open source without writing any
code!

</Homeworks>

<div style={{display: 'grid', gridGap: 10, gridTemplateColumns: 'repeat(auto-fill, minmax(300px, 1fr))'}}>

<Resources>

- [All Contributors](https://allcontributors.org/)
- [Source](https://hopeinsource.com/)
- [Maintainers Anonymous](https://maintainersanonymous.com/)
- [Chesterton's fence](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Chesterton%27s_fence)

</Resources>

<Guest name="Henry Zhu" image={PhotoHenry}>

- [Twitter](https://twitter.com/left_pad)
- [Github](https://github.com/hzoo)
- [Website](henryzoo.com)

</Guest>

</div>

---

## Transcript

<Transcript>

**Kent C. Dodds:** Hello friends, this is your friend Kent C. Dodds, and I'm
joined by my friend Henry Zhu. Say hi, Henry.

**Henry Zhu:** Hi Henry.

**Kent C. Dodds:** So Henry and I go way back. The first time I remember seeing
you on the internet was with Babel ESLint. And I don't think I've ever told you
this story, but I remember Sebastian was like, "Hey, I can't maintain this
project. And all the others, so I can't do this one anymore." And you mentioned,
"I could do it." And I remember seeing you and I was like, "This is the first
time I've seen this guy. Who is this guy?" He thinks he can manage this project.
And so I went and saw that you'd been involved in JSCS and stuff like that. I
just remember thinking that. And then of course, now you're the head honcho
maintainer at Babel at this point. And since then I've gotten to know you and
it's been a real pleasure. So yeah.

**Henry Zhu:** Same.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Why don't we just get to know you generally, for those who
don't know you very well. If you could just tell us a little bit about yourself
before we get into our conversation. I'm sure people would love to know more
about you.

**Henry Zhu:** Yeah, so I'm Henry Zhu. I mean that's kind of a good intro.
Honestly, I got involved in open source because of a project called JSCS, which
is a JavaScript linter. And it was kind of related to JSLint and then we ended
up eventually merged it into ESLint, which is why you have never heard of the
project at this point. And so I was in that conversation with Nicholas and the
team to help merge the projects. Because you don't see that often in open
source. It's always like forking things or whatever. And I think other people
were burnt out and they were doing the same thing. Might as well combine forces.
And yeah, I think I probably thought the same thing as you. You were saying,
"Who's this random person trying to take over this project?"

**Henry Zhu:** Yeah, I was a random person. And I don't know how I ended up in
this position because when I was at Babel ESLint, I eventually maintained that
and eventually was one of the few people that just happened to be involved in
Babel. And then when Sebastian got burnt out and he left, I just was one of the
people that had to step up. I mean, not like I had to, it's just I accidentally
was in that position and then I just had to learn all of it and it's not like I
knew how to be a maintainer or anything about compilers, honestly. You just
somehow made it work. And I think looking back, I don't think I would give
someone the access to this now that we know about left-pad and EventStream, all
that stuff. Maybe it's a really bad idea. But, somehow it worked out and I guess
I'm grateful that I had the opportunity because I'm not that much of a great
programmer in terms of everyone else that's doing stuff. It just happened to
work out, so.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Well.

**Henry Zhu:** Yeah.

**Kent C. Dodds:** I just happened to know that you've done quite a bit of
coding and I would say that you're a great programmer. But lots of programming
is persistence as well. But you've done some really awesome things so thanks for
that. I'll let you finish your telling us about yourself.

**Henry Zhu:** Yeah, I guess just real quick, I maintain Babel right now as one
of the... I'm the only person working on it full time and when I say full time
it doesn't mean I'm like spending all my time doing it. It's just my intention
is to spend my... I'd be calling it my job to work on this project because I
just quit my job at Adobe, so I quit like last March. So it's been almost a year
and a half now and I'm fully funded through the community through OpenCollective
and patient \[inaudible 00:03:45\] on GitHub. And yeah, that has been I guess a
dream come true.

**Henry Zhu:** I know it's a lot of people's dreams to do open source full time.
Probably one of the few people that I was able to do it. And so yeah, I've been
trying to figure out how to make that work for myself, our team. And then just
thinking about open source in general and trying to help other people and other
collectives or other projects get funding. Or not even money related, how do you
deal with the emotional side of open source, dealing with just being a
maintainer and managing that with your regular work life, all that stuff. And
then just on personal stuff. I'm pretty into video games, board games and ping
pong. Yep.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Nice. Yeah. What are your favorite board games right now?

**Henry Zhu:** I've been pretty into Seven Wonders and then lately a lot more,
you could call them party games because not everyone's like super hardcore into
board games. But Codenames is really good. Dixit and recently I got this game
called The Mind, which is really great. And I actually wrote my last newsletter
just about that game because I thought it was interesting. So I might come up
with a blog post about how I think that relates to other things. It's really
cool. It's a game where, just I guess, to explain it, it's a game where you are
supposed to technically read people's minds and it sounds weird, but essentially
it's just a deck of cards from one to a hundred and you deal out cards to each
person and there's multiple levels. Each level like level one you have one car
in level two everyone has two cards, but you're supposed to play the cards in
order from ascending order but you can't talk to anyone.

**Henry Zhu:** So if you have the one you have to play it right now. But if you
have the 10 you should probably play it soon, but you have no idea who is
supposed to go. And so you know you can be kind of lenient with like how you
communicate like body language. But it's really fun because there's scenarios
where it's like it just seems impossible that it happened. But say I played 19
and someone played 20 and then 21 and then 22 and nobody said anything. It just
happens, right? So there's really cool moments that you can have and it's not,
it sometimes doesn't even feel like a game. It's just like a way to bond
together in this shared experience. Yeah, it's really interesting.

**Kent C. Dodds:** That's fascinating. So it's like a collaborative game. You
all win together kind of thing.

**Henry Zhu:** Yeah. Yeah. Or lose together.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah. That's a fun game. That sounds very interesting. You'll
have to bring it to the next conference.

**Henry Zhu:** Yeah! Are you going to React Rally? It's, yeah.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah, are you going?

**Henry Zhu:** Okay? Mm-hmm (affirmative) Yeah. I'll bring it then.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah. Fantastic. Well by the time everybody listens to this,
that'll already have happened.

**Henry Zhu:** That's true.

**Kent C. Dodds:** I'm sure we had a great time. But yeah. Cool. So I always
love talking with you because you have a really unique perspective on the world
of open source being a full time open sourcer person. And recently you haven't
been doing a whole lot of coding with the open source work that you've been
doing, which is interesting. And as a maintainer, I know that most of
maintaining a project is not coding but pretty much not doing any coding,
recently. I wanted to ask you a little bit about your strategy there. How do you
maintain a project or even contribute to a project without actually coding?

**Henry Zhu:** Yeah, so that's a really hard question because... And this kind
of gets into, not even open source, like how do I parallel with people that are
not maybe streaming now is that when you get to a point where, "Oh maybe I
should be a manager." That kind of thing. I think it's the same problem and I've
never been a manager. I've always just been a programmer at a company. I never
really thought about getting promoted and all this stuff. And I think that
transition is hard because what happens is you go from... I think we tend to
value our work based on how many commits or pushing out features like shipping
things, right? And when you become a manager you're not writing code either,
probably not as much at least.

**Henry Zhu:** And so your evaluation is around people, how they're doing, how
do you bring move them up towards the goals that they want. And so I'm basically
doing the same thing with our own team. And before I was like, you feel good
about like making commits, fixing bugs, merging PRs, all these things. And now I
don't have that anymore. So how do you even measure if you're doing well and you
always feel bad because you always want to go back to writing code. Because it's
not just easier because you're used to it but then also easier to measure. And
so it's been kind of hard. It's definitely taking this whole year to feel like,
"Okay I don't feel guilty not writing code." Basically. Not even because I think
I should be writing code, but then other people might think I should be writing
code too. Because I think we all have this expectation that maintainers should
be writing code. But then also maintainers know that, not even just the code,
but triage and merging things, releasing process, onboarding, marketings,
documentation, testing, making videos, giving talks.

**Henry Zhu:** There's a million things you can be doing. And they all help the
project. And if our goal is to make it sustainable for a long run, I don't
think... Well the way I was thinking about is I don't think long run it would be
good if I just spent all my time fixing bugs and making the issue count to zero
when I know the rate of which is going to go up, and the users that we have,
it's just not possible for one person.

**Henry Zhu:** So if anything, the way we should be spending money or the way I
should spending my time is to figure out a way to get more people involved.
Either in new contributors or companies or getting more funding. These other
things which take a lot longer time and the feedback cycle is a lot longer, but
I think it's worth doing. That's what I've been trying to do with the podcast or
giving talks. Trying to be more experimental even. Just try new ideas. And you
have to be okay with failing and doing that. And that's hard because there's no
standard or like, "Oh I'm supposed to do it this way." And that's kind of scary,
right?

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah. And there's a bit of the unknown and then that peer
pressure that you mentioned as well. It's tricky, especially when people are
financing your decisions. You feel an accountability toward those people and
making sure that you're doing right by them. Which, as a maintainer of projects,
I know that, yeah, you can spend a lot of quality time on the project without
actually writing any code.

**Kent C. Dodds:** So you mentioned a bunch of things that take up your time as
a maintainer of the project that don't involve writing code. What do you think?
Let's say that I'm a new person in the open source world. I want to get into
contributing open source. I'm probably thinking, "Okay, I need to write some
code to..." That's kind of the default is when people say contribute to open
source, they're thinking code. What would you say to somebody who's just
starting to get into open source as a good way to enter that realm? Like maybe
somebody comes to you and says, "Hey, I think Babel is a cool project. I want to
get involved." What are the kinds of things that you say to kind of help them
get into the open source?

**Henry Zhu:** Yeah, I mean, I think you've talked about this a lot too, but in
the there's no... Because the defaults code and there's so many things to do.
Think of it as a company or just a volunteer project. I know there's no blanket
statement I can say about what you could do, but I think honestly the best thing
to do is just to talk to that person and figure out what they like, what they're
good at, what their background is like. I would say something like, "If you
already have a coding background and you're just writing code at work already,
then maybe your first contribution could be code because you're..." The open
source coding and that is not that different. I like to say it's like when you
join a company, all the code is on the \[inaudible 00:12:00\] too, right?

**Henry Zhu:** You have to get onboard and learn all this stuff. It's just that
you're getting paid for it and someone's supposed to be your mentor. But
honestly it's the same thing with open source. The code base is also unknown.
It's just more visible and in that sense it shouldn't be that different.
Although it will be harder because you have to find someone to help you. And
maybe, I don't know, for some reason at your job you're more willing to figure
out how things work and it depends on the complexity of the project, obviously.
Maybe if you think that this project is really big, then maybe it's better to
find a smaller project. Or the big project has smaller scope projects for you to
look at. I think otherwise I would look at some of the skills that you already
have outside of coding or maybe you don't even have a coding background at all.
Maybe you're in finance or you're doing business or you do art. I think there
are other opportunities to make a difference on the website, or all these
different ways. Yeah.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah. It's multifaceted. The things that open source projects
need. Yeah. So you mentioned if you're into finance or something like that, then
you can contribute to open source. Which made me think of my next question of
why would somebody want to get into open source if they're not going to be
contributing code? One of the things that I say to people about when people ask
me if I can be their mentor or something as they say, well I never really had an
official technical mentor. I just used open source as my mentor. And then I had
hundreds of people who were responding to my PRs and stuff like that and
mentoring me in the open source world. And so that was one of the benefits that
I got by contributing code to open source. What would you say are some of the
benefits to contributing something other than code to open source?

**Henry Zhu:** Yeah, I mean I would say that it's a good way to get involved in
open source as a project because... I mean, this is assuming that you want to
get involved the first place. So maybe, why would you want to do it in the first
place? Well, I would say that it's a type of, I don't know, what do you call it,
a thing that some of the values that at least are shown through the project are
different than in the world where it's you gave it away for free. It's so funny,
even at church, I'll tell people... They're like, "What do you do?" It's really
hard to explain what I do now, but if I just say open source, I'll be like,
"Well I write code and I give away for free." Or something like that.

**Henry Zhu:** And they're like, "Why would you do that? How do you make money?"
And all these questions come up. But people are very interested in that because
there's not a lot of things like that. And so just because they want to get
involved in the community that's bigger. You could say it's used by lots of
people, that kind of thing. You're giving back. I think that's a good reason.
And if they want to get into tech, I would say, "One way of getting involved
without having to necessarily say I'm going to get a degree, all this stuff, is
to do open source."

**Henry Zhu:** I guess I'm just saying that being involved in the community is a
lot more than just making some commits. There's understanding who's involved,
getting to know those people at a personal level, especially when there's so few
people, and a lot of them are very available. Not that you're going to bombard
them with questions, but slowly getting involved. It just takes time. You can't
just show up and then expect all this stuff to be given to you. But if you're
there people will notice and will talk to you. Most maintainers are more than
willing to get to know people, especially if they're going to stick around
because so few people do in the first place that anyone that shows up we're
like, "Wow, we totally want to help you." Right?

**Henry Zhu:** And so yeah, even recently, we've had a few contributors that we
added as a triage role, which is really nice that could help finally edit this
\[crosstalk 00:16:03\] permissions model. Yeah, so to explain, normally you can
either be like an admin, which lets you do anything. And then there's like
commit access, which lets you merge PRs. But there's no access to let you only
like say close issues, label issues, those kinds of things. So we're trying to
figure out like, "Oh that's one way of slowly letting people get involved
without overburdening them with responsibility or feeling like they don't
deserve certain things."

**Henry Zhu:** So sometimes you might even add people, just give them commit
rights really early, but then they don't use it cause they don't feel like
they're qualified enough. So I think that's a stepping stone to help them feel
more confident about themselves. Sometimes I'll give people access and then that
means like, "Oh you can merge things now." And maybe I'll even suggest they do
it. But then they're scared and that's normal. Because you never have done it
before, you're scared you're going to make a bug or release all of this stuff. I
think it's how do you help them get to that point? And that's one way of doing
that.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah, absolutely. And as a maintainer, you really want to
give them that responsibility because when somebody has that gift of trust and
responsibility given to them, they often will stand up for or rise to the
challenge and become more involved. And so it's great that GitHub has added that
new more stepping stone more... I don't know. Yeah. That role.

**Kent C. Dodds:** So we talked about contributing by triaging issues, which is
a huge, huge help. That's so much of maintaining. And then also their support
channels. So you a Slack channel, which I haven't been there in a little while,
but when I was there were people posting things on there all the time asking for
help and I seen lots of opportunity to get help or to help out and lift their...
Designing the website or building the website or making examples for the website
and also doing podcasts and the things that you're doing. I feel like there are
just so many opportunities that you can contribute. And all of these things are
kind of building around the open source project. How are these things, actual
contributions, how does this make the project itself better? Because we're not
actually contributing to the core code here so we're not actually making the
software itself better. But by contributing to the things around the software,
how does that make things better indirectly?

**Henry Zhu:** Yeah. So, that's a really good question. I think that that's what
the aspect of community is all about. That inherently you have to be able to...
The project is going to be broadcast in certain ways and so even through all
those channels there are ways to contribute through that way. And so how are
people going to know about Babel? How are people going to know how to contribute
to Babel? It's going to be through the docs or videos or giving talks or doing
podcasts. That's why now I have finally, "Oh maybe we should do a Babel
podcast." Just because we talk about all these things by ourselves and like
maybe all the conversations we have could just be recorded and we'd be
interesting people because maybe we assume all these things that people would
like to know about.

**Henry Zhu:** And it doesn't even have to be like the compiler. It could be
about open source. What it's like. What are the things that we deal with on a
day to day? What questions are we asking that we don't understand? All these
questions we just brought up. How do we get more people involved? How do we get
people where to stay? How do we find out what's best for the people? How do we
onboard them? How do we organize all this, all the different areas of their
project. If you have the podcasts and the docs, can people even find it? Is it
organized in a way that makes sense? We could have copy editing like the way
that we write things isn't like having a linter for your \[inaudible 00:20:23\].
So blog posts, all those things. Making it more cohesive I think.

**Henry Zhu:** And also probably the most important thing in terms of longterm
thing is what's the vision of the project and making sure people actually
understand what's this about, where is it going, those kinds of things. And
those don't even... You can tweet things, you can write blog posts. But
ultimately it's almost like, yeah, the culture \[inaudible 00:20:47\] of the
project and what do people, when they hear about, what do they think? Is it
positive? Is it negative? Do they understand what the difference is between say
a compiler and a polyfill? Those kinds of things. And I don't think people do,
that means we're not doing a good job of showing that. And there are other ways
of trying to... So I think it is true that you still have to understand a lot
about it, but I think being able to talk at a high level is really important.

**Henry Zhu:** If anything, me being able to talk to people at church or just
other friends that are not in tech about what Babel is, and they don't know
anything about JavaScript, and they still kind of get it, is a good thing. And
it helps me communicate better with just any developer, honestly. I don't have
to say that it's a compiler. I could just say it's a translator and I can talk
about... I mean the name is Babel, those kinds of things. Maybe it's easier
because we work on that, but I think being able to communicate better is really
important. Yeah.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah. One thing that occurred to me as you were saying some
of those things, I've got a couple of things I want to talk about. So one was
that when you're a software engineer and you're writing code, you think that
like it's awesome that you can optimize the performance of this one branch of
code and you're going to save, when you're talking about a project like Babel
that's used by hundreds of thousands of projects, you're going to save a lot of
people, even if you shave off 500 milliseconds, you're going to save a lot of
people a lot of time. That scales very quickly and so you feel really good about
that and that's a huge contribution. And it occurs to me that if you can improve
the documentation in a way that speeds people up in learning and applying the
cool tool, then you also save a lot of people a lot of time.

**Kent C. Dodds:** So maybe you give a talk that shows here's how you do this.
Or you could build another tool around the tool to make it easier to use for a
specific use case. There are lots of different things. So in that case that
would be contributing code but maybe not to the core project. But there are a
lot of different things that you can do that do make a substantial impact on the
project. And maybe there's not really an easy place in Babel to speed it up even
25 milliseconds. But there are gaping holes in the documentation or something
where you could speed up a lot of people by factors of 10 over that or
something. And so where the needs are, is where the contributions are needed, I
guess. And I think there's a lot of opportunity out there for people to
contribute code or in various other ways.

**Henry Zhu:** Yeah, I think it kind of just gets to this issue, in my mind, of
as a maintainer or any maintainer, we have to do a better job of showing people
what's possible. If all we do is talk about code and we show, and we reward
people for coding, then people are going to be like, "Oh, I'm going to write
code." But maybe I should be more vocal about the fact that I'm not writing that
much. Not that I'm doing nothing at all, but I'm not focusing on that. And
that's totally fine. There's plenty of things to do. The fact that I can be full
time and not do it shows that there's a lot of things that could be done. And
hopefully that is helpful enough to people to say that, "Oh I can..." How do we
get people to think a little bit different? Change their mindset around
consuming open source and to say that...

**Henry Zhu:** We've been talking a lot about contributing and I think a lot of
it has to do with knowledge and I've been thinking a lot more about this idea of
process knowledge. They think that knowledge isn't just a bunch of bits. It's
not just the information that's there but the process behind it, like the
metadata and all that stuff, might not be in the docs and maybe we need to write
it down. Or there are things that are just not expressible through the docs and
you just learn it during the process of being involved in projects.

**Henry Zhu:** So a very easy example is when you're playing sports, you have a
mentor that just guides you through it. Or you're learning to cook something.
There are things that you pick up through the process of doing something that
you can't take by just reading something. You have to be in the community, you
have to be involved, you have to like it. And maybe even and you'll learn a lot
more just showing up, and hopefully they'll show up with you, than simply
reading a book or something like that.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Mm-hmm (affirmative). Yeah. I think that's very true. So
we're kind of coming down in our time. There are two things that I want to make
sure to talk about and one thing that we haven't mentioned that I just wanted to
bring up for people is if you're a maintainer of a project and you want to
encourage people to give these kinds of contributions, I'm not going to go too
deep into this, but I just wanted to mention all contributors. If you go to
allcontributors.org it's a great place that shows you how you can give back or
encourage that kind of contribution, non code contribution, so definitely take a
look at that. Then that's all I'm going to say about it. But I'd be remiss if we
didn't at least mention that.

**Kent C. Dodds:** The one thing that I definitely wanted to bring up before we
run out of time here is you have this podcast called Hope in Source, which is
like open source, right? I love that. I think that's great. But it's talking
about faith and its relationship and not necessarily relationship but the
correlation, I guess, between faith and open source. And I'm curious, I want to
hear just a little bit about your thoughts around that and how that applies to
the kinds of contributions that we're talking about.

**Henry Zhu:** Yeah, so I started that podcast to... Because it wasn't like, "Oh
I'm someone of faith." So then I'm trying to figure out what's related. It's
just I got involved in open source and then after I was like, "Whoa." I didn't
realize in the end there's a lot of similarities, and there's a lot of
parallels, I guess is the word. I think just at a fundamental level that open
source, a big part of it, is about service, about serving other people in the
community, giving back, not expecting anything, that kind of thing. And I think
that is the kind of ethos that we want in our faith communities, whatever it is.
And I think, in my own church we serve in certain ways. We serve our own church,
we serve the city, that kind of thing.

**Henry Zhu:** And so that's what got me thinking about that. And even in terms
of funding or asking for donations, fundraising, this idea of membership into
something. Being committed to something for the long run. In terms of religious
institutions, they've been around for a long time. They have thought about
maintaining a lot more than anyone in tech. I think it would be a good idea for
us to pay attention to why things stay as they are. And even this idea of
tradition. I think now we kind of shy away from tradition or think it's bad, but
I think it's important for us to understand why things are there in the first
place.

**Henry Zhu:** I brought this up on other podcasts but there's a concept called
Chesterton's Fence and it talks about if there's a fence in front of you, which
is talking about tradition or liturgy, that you might just be like, "Well
there's a fence, I'm just going to get rid of it." But his point was to say that
before you get rid of it, probably someone put that fence there for a reason. It
wasn't just there, right. It was like some person put it there. And so before
you get rid of it, you should understand why they put it there in the first
place. And that would make you be able to have a decision around whether you
should remove it or not.

**Henry Zhu:** And it's the same thing if you keep it there, you should probably
understand why I was there in the first place too. Because what happens is when
we get into our rituals and liturgies and traditions, maybe we tend to create
new meanings for them, which is not bad, or we forget why they were there in the
first place. And then at the end we won't even do it anymore because it was
like, "What was the point of this again?" So I think it's important for us to
think about those kinds of things in open source too. We have our own liturgies
there too. We have meetups and conferences. They're annual. People meet up
there. We have OctoberFest. There are different things that are like that in
open source. I mean you think about how are those going well and how are those
not going so well and what we can do to improve on them.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Mm-hmm (affirmative). Yeah. So there's a lot to be learned
from religion and faith, communities of faith when applied to open source. Yeah.
I think that's very true. And you don't have to believe in God to participate in
open source, but having a community of people and I just think... Yeah, I agree.
It's fascinating the relationship or the correlation there, the parallels
between those two and if anybody wants to dive deeper into the subject Hope in
Source is a great podcast. To look into. So as we wrap things up here, Henry, is
there anything else that you wanted to touch on before we conclude here with our
call to action and wrap up?

**Henry Zhu:** I mean it's kind of the same stuff. I think that something I've
been thinking a lot more about is just, I mean we talked about non-coding a lot,
but I think I've been trying to get into more other fields that are not
literally coding but are related. So this idea of like trying to be more
interdisciplinary. Things that I thought had nothing to do with open source. I
mean faith is one of them. After that that's kind of why, now that I think about
it, it makes sense.

**Henry Zhu:** I decided to make another podcast called Maintainers Anonymous.
And the whole point of that podcast is to at first it was interview other open
source maintainers, but then later I was like, "Oh I should just talk to anyone
that what I would consider as a maintainer." Which is very broad now. Someone
that takes care of something for some common good. And so some of the recent
episodes I interviewed someone that works at a museum, someone that works at a
library or you could be a gardener, you could be a parent. There's all these
different people that have different experiences in their life and different
vocabulary, right? All of this stuff. And I think it's important for us to learn
from. I want to, so that's why I want to talk to those people. Yeah.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah. I think that's great. So people just go consume Henry's
content. It'll all be good. Cool. So just as our grand takeaway from this
conversation, which I have really enjoyed, it's... You probably hear my
brother's screaming out there. But yeah, so the call to action is I want people
to try to find a way to do one thing to contribute to open source without
writing any code. And so like we talked about a lot of them, write a blog post
or, triage some issues or go to the support channel and answer some people's
questions. But if everybody who listens to this podcast did that for any open
source project, that would be like a huge amount of work done to make the world
a better place. So yeah, that's your homework for \[crosstalk 00:32:20\]
episode. Cool. So Henry, how can people get in touch with you if they want to?

**Henry Zhu:** Yeah, I guess you could go to my website. It's henryzoo.com but
it's Z-O-O. And then I'm on Twitter too. So left_pad. Yeah.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Nice. Cool. Well, Henry, it's always a pleasure to chat with
you. I've enjoyed our conversation. I hope that the people listening enjoyed it
as well. And yeah, we'll see you around the internet. Thanks everyone.

**Henry Zhu:** Thanks.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Bye.

</Transcript>
