---
title: Jenn Creighton Chats With Kent About Avoiding An "Apropcolypse"
slug: jenn-creighton-chats-with-kent-about-avoiding-an-apropcolypse
simpleCastId: 6866a015-36f4-43f9-a35c-7f44cf623147
description:
  'Jenn Creighton chats with Kent about how she keeps her React codebase clean.'
season: 2
number: 3
keywords:
  [
    'react',
    'teaching',
    'career',
    'web development',
    'dev',
    'software',
    'education',
    'javascript',
    'mentorship',
  ]
metaImage: './jenn-creighton-card.png'
guestPhoto: './jenn-creighton.png'
---

import Transcript from 'components/podcast/transcript'
import Resources from 'components/podcast/resources'
import Homeworks from 'components/podcast/homeworks'
import Guest from 'components/podcast/guest'
import PhotoJenn from './jenn-creighton.png'

Jenn has been working with React since 0.13. She has a background in creative
writing, and it melded well with React.

One of her big early mistakes with React was focusing too hard on making
components reusable. When you try to make your component one-hundred percent
reusable, you end up with a massive stack of props. In our effort to make things
reusable, we end up making it harder for ourselves and others.

Sometimes it even makes sense to duplicate the component, change its name, and
add your changes to it instead of adding more props to the existing component.
Too many props on your component not only makes it hard to refactor but also
difficult to even use.

One of Jenn's rules for her codebase is that new engineers should be able to
come in and get up to speed quickly. It is an overall rule that has to do with
keeping the codebase consistent. Jenn puts rules in place like, "We consistently
use this state management library." So if a person comes in, they aren't finding
multiple ways of doing the same thing.

<Homeworks>

Document it before you write your next component!

</Homeworks>

<div style={{display: 'grid', gridGap: 10, gridTemplateColumns: 'repeat(auto-fill, minmax(300px, 1fr))'}}>

<Resources>

- [Kent C. Dodds - When to break up a component into multiple components](https://kentcdodds.com/blog/when-to-break-up-a-component-into-multiple-components)
- [useReactNYC Meetup](https://usereact.nyc/)

</Resources>

<Guest name="Jenn Creighton" image={PhotoJenn}>

- [Twitter](https://twitter.com/gurlcode)
- [Notist](https://noti.st/jenncreighton)
- [Github](https://github.com/jcreighton)
- [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/jennifercreighton)

</Guest>

</div>

---

## Transcript

<Transcript>

**Kent C. Dodds:** Hello friends, this is your friend Kent C. Dodds, and I'm
joined by my friend Jenn Creighton. Say hi Jenn.

**Jenn Creighton:** Hi.

**Kent C. Dodds:** So Jenn is a wonderful person. We were just reminiscing over
how we got acquainted, and it was last year for ReactRally 2018. I was preparing
to speak about React patterns, and I wanted to talk about the props explosion
that happens when you have this "reusable" component. And I think I asked
"What's one component that you know that has the most amount of props you've
ever seen?" And I found one that was over a hundred props. It was nuts. But Jenn
responded with the best tweet ever, that I actually included in my talks, you
said, "I call that apropcolypse." That was so good. I loved that. That was so
great. So that was my first introduction to the wonderfulness that is Jenn.
Jenn, you do a lot more than just tweet really great puns on Twitter. Could you
give us a little intro to yourself, please?

**Jenn Creighton:** I mean, that really was my best pun, so I don't tweet that
many puns. I try. But yeah, so I am a front end architect at a company called
The Wing. We build women-first coworking spaces and I joined about four months
ago, so I'm taking on a new role in front-end architecture. And before that I
was working as a senior front-end engineer at ClassPass.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Interesting.

**Jenn Creighton:** And I do a lot of talks. A lot of traveling. Yeah, it's my
hobby.

**Kent C. Dodds:** So it's a hobby, not specifically for work?

**Jenn Creighton:** Exactly. Yeah. I mean, work appreciates that I do it. It's
definitely a plus for them, but it's not part of my job. I just really enjoy
public speaking and teaching.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Wonderful. And I'm looking forward to React Conf where I'll
get to experience that firsthand, seeing you give that give a talk there. I'm
not going to spoil it for people, but I am super excited about the talk that
you're going to be giving. I believe we should hopefully have this published
before that time so people can get ready for that great talk. I hope I'm not
overselling it and making you feel uncomfortable, but I heard the topic and it
sounds great. So, great. Jenn, how long have you been using React?

**Jenn Creighton:** I would say about four or five years now, I think, five.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Wow. That's a long time. That's definitely way more than half
the people... Okay, if we take all of React's community, all the people using
React, you've been using it for longer than way more than half the community,
I'm sure. So you've been around since pre-major version days, like 014, probably
013, right?

**Jenn Creighton:** Yeah, 013. That's around when we started to use it at a
company. I was actually the person begging to please use it because we were
using Angular1 and that was my big impetus.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah. I can relate to the desire to switch from Angular1, as
great as it was. Don't get me wrong, I liked Angular1 better than Backbone, for
goodnessâ€™ sake. But, yeah, I was pretty happy to move on to React, myself. So
five years of React, I'm sure you've experienced a lot of things. One thing that
I have come to realize the longer that I've been working in software is that the
longer you work in it you develop more experience, which seems obvious but you
are exposed to more problems and therefore you gain more experience.  
So your experiences of five years working with React have probably taught you a
lot. What are some of the lessons that you've learned in the process of building
React applications, architecting applications and some of the mistakes that
you've made? What would you say are some of the biggest lessons that you've
learned in using React for that time?

**Jenn Creighton:** In the early days when I was just starting out with React,
truthfully I had no clue what I was doing. Angular1 was very different and
before that I had worked with a proprietary framework at another startup that
wasn't from a big name. Coming to React was really a lovely feeling, actually,
because it really aligned with how I was thinking about components in this
declarative sort of state. And the talk I'm going to give at React Conf actually
really dives into this, where that comes from and my background with creative
writing and why that melds so well with React.  
I think some of my earliest mistakes were not leaning into that, not thinking
about the structure of the components as declaratively and really still focusing
on "What do I need to do in this individual component?" and then not being able
to see the forest for the trees. You're just in the trees and you have no clue
and you're adding in props. You're like, "I need this one, too, and this one."
And once you get out of the component and start to use it you're like, "Oh, this
is not good. This does not feel good."  
That was some of the early, early mistakes as well as really over focusing on
reuse. That was another huge, huge pitfall early on just thinking like, "I need
to make every single part of this super reusable, just in case. Who knows?" I
mean, you and I have seen what that leads to. It's the apropcolypse. Never going
to let that pun die. But that's how it starts, basically. Someone's like, "This
has to be as reusable as possible. Just add more props to it and we can reuse
it. Isn't that great?" No. That ends up being usually a complicated nest of code
that you have to unravel at some point.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah, precisely. I think we get so excited, especially moving
from a situation where our code wasn't very reasonable to a situation where our
code can be super reusable, we get really excited about the possibilities. And,
as programmers, I think we just naturally have this idea that like, "Oh man, I
can do all kinds of this magic stuff and we've got this abstraction that it's a
black box and I can do all kinds of nutso stuff in here." But it's funny, in our
efforts to make things really reusable and simple, we actually make things
harder from not only the maintain standpoint where we're like, "No, I'm fine
maintaining something hard as long as it makes it easy for everybody else," but
it not only makes it harder for ourselves but also makes it harder for everybody
else.  
So how do you avoid that kind of a problem? What do you do to solve both
problems? I mean, I'm okay with a little bit of a complexity that I have to
maintain as long as it's easy for everybody else. But is there a way that I can
make it easy for everybody else and easy for me as a maintainer?

**Jenn Creighton:** Yeah. And so this question of "How do I make it easy for
somebody else?" is where a lot of the work that I do when I'm starting to build
out a component really comes into play. So some of the early stuff that I do,
like very early in the process when I'm like, "Okay, I'm breaking down a page."
And as you said, we are very much trained as engineers to look for the reusable
stuff. And so very early on we're already looking at design and we're like,
"Look, this thing is reused so I can make this into a reusable component." And
that's fine in small cases, but occasionally you don't realize that you're about
to make a reusable component that's handling three to five-plus states. And that
starts to get really unwieldy and no one's going to use that, in the end,
because they're going to have to supply so many props to it, it becomes actually
not easy to use.  
So one of the things I do at the beginning stages, I actually write down the API
for the component. And this is ensuring, from the outside when you start using
the component, that you're actually thinking about the end user, which is you as
an engineer and your fellow engineers. And some of the points of it are like,
"How much insight do I want to give them to how this component works
internally?" Maybe I want them to know, maybe I don't, and that's a big
consideration. How easy do I want the API to be? How many props? Can I limit the
number of props so that they're not frustrated with this? Can I make these
really clear? That's some of the really early stuff.

**Kent C. Dodds:** And making a configuration objects, like a prop that is just
a configuration is just more props. You're not lying to anybody. That does not
solve the problem.

**Jenn Creighton:** No, it doesn't.

**Kent C. Dodds:** One prop that's an object or configuration. That's just a
bunch of props.

**Jenn Creighton:** No, I've started to do this thing at work where if I see a
props-type dot object somewhere, I'm going to ask you to flatten in and out and
we're going to see how many props it actually adds. Because that's an
anti-pattern to me. You can't do that. It really is just like you're just
lengthening out this prop list. And I think people just think, "Oh, but this is
how React is supposed to be. We are supposed to get reusable components out of
it. It's meant to accept props. Like why would we need to think about these
things?" And my response is like, "Well, your whole app is essentially like one
component that you're feeding in all the props you could ever want. Do you just
want to create one component that could be your entire application?" That's the
reason why we break it out.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah. And actually I've got a blog post about that where you
could build your entire app as a single component, but there are good reasons to
break it up. And, you know what, code duplication is not a bad thing by itself.

**Jenn Creighton:** It's not.

**Kent C. Dodds:** It's totally acceptable. And sometimes it makes things
simpler.

**Jenn Creighton:** It does. Sometimes it's fine to duplicate a component, add a
change to it and rename it this thing with whatever. I do that a lot. We have
event listings on our site right now. Sometimes the event is going to be
wait-listed. And so it changes it how it looks a little bit. I'd rather just
create a wait-listed event component and pull up the logic to decide if it's
wait-listed or not somewhere else. I don't want to keep it encapsulated in the
event component. That's not its job.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah. That's an interesting point to bring up. So there seem
to be two schools of thought around this idea where you have some people who
say, "Let's break out these components, break them down into their smallest
pieces. Any component that's longer than three or four lines is probably an
anti-pattern or something." And then you have other people on the other side of
the spectrum who just make these giant render methods of all of this JSX in
there and it's managing a bunch of state and has several concerns all lumped
into one big component. Where do you see yourself based on your experience, what
has worked the best for you? And can you elaborate a little bit on how that's
worked for you?

**Jenn Creighton:** I think for me mostly it's been separation of concerns. I
don't lean so much on the size of the component. What I'm more concerned about
is what does this component need to know? What do other components need to know
about this one? Does my whole application need to... Is going to be affected by
something that's done in this component. So thinking about those sorts of rules
and then starting to break it down. And obviously I think one of the big, big,
early mistakes that I made was putting a lot of business logic in my components.
So I'm just a proponent of the more you lift that up and out, your components
become way cleaner. So that's a big deal for me. But I don't lean, I would
guess, heavily on the "Everything should be a certain size." And I definitely do
not go towards the rat nest, everything-in-there components. I tend to be a
hybrid approach as much as possible.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah. Yeah. So it's not like a quantitative figure that you
can put an ESLint rule on this and say, "If this, then it's bad," but you may
make it more intentional, I guess.

**Jenn Creighton:** Yeah. It's similar to how I feel about dry and reuse. I
think that dry is, when you go hard at that rule, you probably end up making
poor choices. And also when you leave it out completely, you probably end up
making poor choices. It's really about, over time, getting experiences with the
trade offs of what's going to happen if you duplicate something or not. Yes,
it's annoying if I need to change the events component and the wait-listed
events component, but they both need that change now. But it's two changes. It's
not 20. In that case you might want to start thinking of an extra layer of
abstraction on top that's going to prevent that.

**Kent C. Dodds:** But it all comes down to being intentional-

**Jenn Creighton:** Yes.

**Kent C. Dodds:** ... about the design of your components. Yeah, that's very
good. So when we're being intentional about design, we have to know what our
intent is. Is that something that just comes from experience and therefore you
just have to use it for five years before you gain that intuition? Or are there
things that people can do? You mentioned documenting the component first, which
I think is a great practice. Or are there other things that people can do to
kind of accelerate or increase the impact of the time and experience that they
have so that they can avoid some of these pitfalls and be more intentional about
building their components and abstractions?

**Jenn Creighton:** There are a few things I've done to really ramp up more
quickly on this. One is having a method for breaking down components, which
includes now I remove a lot of the content in the component so I can see them
without the content, because the content can be really distracting sometimes
when you're trying to figure out separation of concerns for things. The other
thing I do-

**Kent C. Dodds:** By content you mean like the JSX that you're rendering? Is
that what you mean?

**Jenn Creighton:** If I'm looking at a list of events, I'll actually remove the
text from inside of each event so that I can sort of see a little bit more about
"Well, okay, taking all the content out, taking all the text out, what is this
component actually concerned about and what does it actually need to do?" And
that really narrows it down when I'm building out the component API. That's
helped tremendously getting better at this.  
And the other thing I do is I read a lot of code from open source libraries.
That's how I usually start to work with new patterns. The render props pattern.
I actually learned from Downshift, reading through Downshift. So I do a lot of
looking at... We pull in a lot of third party React libraries, date pickers and
selects and tool tips and things. And it's really beneficial to find two or
three of them and look through their source code and figure out what they did
differently from each other and figure out the trade offs of those things, the
pros and the cons. That really helps you see why you would want to maybe
introduce a pattern into your own code base or why you might want to stay away
from it in certain cases. Those types of things.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah, that makes a lot of sense, looking at other people's
code, especially if what you're trying to do is build an abstraction that works.
Looking at other abstractions that have been proven to work and see how they
went about doing that and the patterns that they implemented and how those
patterns were implemented. That makes a lot of sense. I, myself, have learned
just a huge amount from open source libraries and also contributing to open
source libraries because then you get these pros reviewing your pull requests
and things and they can give you some feedback there. So that makes a lot of
sense to me.

**Jenn Creighton:** Yeah, and also thinking about how you would improve it. A
lot of this was kicked off by me using third-party libraries and being like,
"This is not feeling good. Why doesn't this feel good? How could I make this
feel good?"

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah. I remember early on in my JavaScript programming days,
I had a friend, Merrick Christensen, who had told me, "Hey, if you want to get
better at JavaScript, take Underscore," this was before Lodash was much of a
thing. He said, "Take Underscore and reimplement all of the methods. Just read
the documentation and write those methods and you'll learn a lot." I never did
it, but it sounded like a good idea.

**Jenn Creighton:** Oh, I definitely remember looking at some of the source code
for jQuery and having it just blow my mind. Like, "Wow." And now I do actually
the same thing with the React source code. I love going into the React source
code and finding out what is so different about building out the framework than
it is like using it. So it's tremendously interesting.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Absolutely. And I think at some point you have to have that
revelation that the dependencies that you're using are written in the same
language that you're using those dependencies with. Right?

**Jenn Creighton:** Yeah.

**Kent C. Dodds:** So it's all JavaScript. Maybe for React, they're using flow,
and so you've got typed definitions in there, too, but it's pretty much very
familiar even if you're not used to flow. So taking a little bit of time to dive
in a little and understand, well, maybe not understand right away, but-

**Jenn Creighton:** Definitely not, definitely not. About no understanding right
away.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah. But stepping through with a debugger or something so
you can follow the code path. That's a huge amount of benefit there.

**Jenn Creighton:** Yeah, it really is. And you know what? I think it's fun.
That's how I enjoy spending my evening is by the glow of my computer, debugging
React source code. It's fun.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah, yeah. And if you need something warm on your legs, on
your laptop, you just spin up some crazy process, process some video and now
you're snuggling with your laptop and it's great.

**Jenn Creighton:** Oh, I never feel like my laptop is not a million degrees.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah. Thank you, Tim Cook, for your fun machines. So, as far
as React component architecture is concerned, what are some of the things that
you found to be... So, we've talked about reusable components and maybe not
always reuse things, but when we're talking about large-scale React
applications, what are some things that you've found to be successful when
architecting a a full application?

**Jenn Creighton:** Do you mean in terms of-

**Kent C. Dodds:** You can talk about maybe file structure or component
structure. Where do you store your state and how do you keep things in sync and
that kind of thing.

**Jenn Creighton:** I'm dealing with all of these questions right now at work.
So moving into this role of being a front end architect and not just a... I
don't want to say "just" actually and not a senior front end engineer
contributing to one part of the code base. Now I oversee the code base. I have
been sort of falling in love with this, while also realizing that I'm untie
untangling a rat's nest of things. I'm coming into a startup where the code base
was built by third-party people first. Then they've hired a team, but no one on
that team is as senior as I am, overall, and also especially in React.  
So a lot of things have been implemented and what I've been trying to do is
actually come up with sort of a set of rules by which I'll make decisions
architecture-wise, not just to do with components but things like, one of my
rules is that an engineer early in their career should be able to come into our
code base and get up to speed quickly. And that is an overall rule that really
just has to do with consistency in your code base. Because if they can't grep
around in the code base, if they can't find that every example of what they
might want to do is consistent, it makes it so much harder for them moving
forward. So I want to put in place these rules about, "We consistently use this
state management library."  
Truthfully, right now, we have Redux and then we're using RSAAs and thunks and
Rematch. Someone put in place all these different things. So if I have a person
come in now, they're finding multiple ways of doing things. So consistency. I
really want to be able to look around at how components are built and see that
they're being built along sort of the same guidelines.  
So I'm starting to hand down some rules and guidelines to my engineers about
keeping business logic out of things. Where do we actually do the management of
deciding what gets passed down to the components business logic-wise and what
changes? So those types of things so that someone can come in and have a good
sense of how we build things. If that answers the question.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah, yeah. And do these rules take the form of some
guidelines and principles in some sort of document or do you have a strict set
of these are the plugins that you use? How do you kind of guide the engineering
so that they follow these rules properly?

**Jenn Creighton:** I'm starting to put in place some more ESLint rules. We
haven't had a lot of them, to date. So we definitely have just like visual
inconsistencies in our code, stylistic inconsistencies. So putting those in
place. The rest of it though is sort of where I'm able to do this because we're
not a large team, but I offer to pair with people. They're welcome to come pair
with me at any time. I review a lot of code reviews that I'm not even on or I
step in with those things. And then I hold a monthly front end guild meeting
where we talk about some of these issues together, about how to build things. I
pass on a lot of resources. I ask them to go to conferences, workshops, got them
an Egghead course, trying to cram knowledge into my team. So, yeah.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Just flood them with resources.

**Jenn Creighton:** Yes. Because in some ways, I say that they're rules, and
really they're guidelines. I'm only going to put my foot down every once in
awhile. As much as I want consistency, but I also don't give my team freedom to
play around with stuff. They're not going to understand why I've asked them to
do it a certain way. There is benefit in letting people see that something
doesn't work and then revise it later. I personally do not see revision or
refactoring as a failure. I think a lot of people do, but I don't.

**Kent C. Dodds:** I love that. Can you dig into that a little bit more, Jenn?
Like why is revision and refactoring not a failure? I've had many times in my
career where I've... Let's try this abstraction and it just is a terrible
experience for everyone and it takes me a week to backtrack off of that. So why
do you see that as not a failure?

**Jenn Creighton:** I think it's part of the natural course of our jobs. And if
you're not doing it, what value are you getting? You need to make the mistakes
to learn something and sometimes it's not even that what you wrote was a
mistake. It was right maybe for the time, but things change, and so you actually
need to go to revisions and refactorings, one, if you're doing this from someone
else's code that they wrote, come to it with the best of intentions. Remember
that they wrote it under circumstances that you weren't there for.  
I think a lot of people, they come in, they see some code, it's not great
according to them, and they're like, "Ugh, I have to refactor this. This is bad
code." And you don't know what that code was written under, unless you're
literally the one that wrote it and then you get to say whatever you want about
your old code. I curse myself a lot. But this is the natural form of things. If
you build code under tight deadlines and you're new to a framework, you're not
going to be putting out your A+ right away things. Your first draft is never the
end draft. You're always revising as you go along and you're learning things
from those revisions. So I really want people to see refactoring as just a
natural progression of our jobs and not a failure at all.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah, I think that's wonderful. That makes me feel better.
So, yeah, really good. So, Jenn, as we're reaching toward the end of our time
here, is there anything else about React component architecture or application
architecture that you'd like to specifically call out and chat about before we
wrap up?

**Jenn Creighton:** I think mostly what we've talked about. Try writing down the
component architecture before you start. Try from the outside to see what your
component's going to look like before you actually start to implement it. It's
really going to help you lean into that declarative nature that is React, too,
it really helps with that. And then remember that you're probably going to write
this thing and it may not work and it might work and then a couple of months
later you come back to it and you hate yourself for it. It's all fine. It's
totally fine. If I go back and look at the components I first wrote five years
ago, I will be horrified and I will just stay in my house forever and never
leave, except that I have a healthy mindset that I was learning, I was new.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah, exactly. That's wonderful. So, there you have it,
everybody. The call to action or your homework for this episode is for the next
component that you write, document that component first. And this isn't just for
reusable components, right, Jenn?

**Jenn Creighton:** Yeah.

**Kent C. Dodds:** This is something that's useful, even if it's this little
widget over here that's only going to be used on this page. Or if you think it's
going to be a reusable component, definitely document it first. I like that idea
a lot. So, Jenn, what's the best way for people to reach you online?

**Jenn Creighton:** Definitely Twitter. My handle is gurlcode, gurl spelled with
a U. I'm pretty active on there, so you can tweet me.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Excellent. And if you're ever in New York city, you've got a
meetup that people can go to, right?

**Jenn Creighton:** Yes. So I'm also a co-organizer for the useReactNYC meetup.
We just got started earlier this year. We just had our fourth meetup and we're
continuing them monthly. Might take a break around the holidays. But if you
happen to be in New York, please look us up. We love new faces in our community.

**Kent C. Dodds:** I spoke two months ago, a month ago, pretty recently, and it
was a wonderful experience. So yeah, a strong recommend there. Great. Well,
Jenn, thank you so much for giving us some of your time this afternoon or
evening or morning, whenever people end up listening to this. I really
appreciate your time and I hope that everybody enjoyed hearing you as much as I
enjoyed chatting with you. So, thank you. And, yeah, we'll see you all later.
Bye friends.

**Jenn Creighton:** Bye, friends.

</Transcript>
