---
title: Kelly Vaughn Chats With Kent About Personal Finance
slug: kelly-vaughn-chats-with-kent-about-personal-finance
simpleCastId: 07b0ef79-d868-4239-980a-ad7b3efafde1
description:
  'Kelly Vaughn chats with Kent about the first steps you need to take to get
  your finances under control.'
season: 2
number: 6
keywords:
  [
    'react',
    'teaching',
    'career',
    'web development',
    'dev',
    'software',
    'education',
    'javascript',
    'mentorship',
  ]
metaImage: './kelly-vaughn-card.png'
guestPhoto: './kelly-vaughn.png'
---

import Transcript from 'components/podcast/transcript'
import Resources from 'components/podcast/resources'
import Homeworks from 'components/podcast/homeworks'
import Guest from 'components/podcast/guest'
import PhotoKelly from './kelly-vaughn.png'

Kelly got into personal finance while she was struggling financially in grad
school. Your very first step to getting your money under control should be to
know where your money is going. Sit down and look at the last three months of
your bank statements and categorize your purchases.

Being able to visualize and measure where your money is going is a fantastic
first step for people wanting to at least see if you could make some changes to
the way that you're spending your money.

After you figure out where your money is going, your second step is to make a
budget. Kelly uses the envelope system. Each category of spending gets an
"envelope" of money, and once there's no more money from the envelope, you can't
spend any more on that category.

<Homeworks>

Figure out where your money has been going the last three months and then create
a budget using an app like You Need A Budget, a notebook, or a spreadsheet!

</Homeworks>

<div style={{display: 'grid', gridGap: 10, gridTemplateColumns: 'repeat(auto-fill, minmax(300px, 1fr))'}}>

<Resources>

### Books

- [Rachel Richards - Money Honey](https://www.moneyhoneyrachel.com/)
- [Dave Ramsey - Total Money Makeover](https://www.daveramsey.com/store/product/the-total-money-makeover-book-by-dave-ramsey)

### Budget Services

- [YNAB - You Need A Budget](https://www.youneedabudget.com/)
- [Mint](https://www.mint.com/)

### Print and Ship

- [teelaunch](https://teelaunch.com/)
- [Printify](https://printify.com/)
- [Printful](https://www.printful.com/)

</Resources>

<Guest name="Kelly Vaughn" image={PhotoKelly}>

- [Twitter](https://twitter.com/kvlly)
- [Dev.to](https://dev.to/kelly)
- [Website](https://kvlly.com/)
- [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/kellyvaughn/)

</Guest>

</div>

---

## Transcript

<Transcript>

**Kent C. Dodds:** Hello friends, this is your friend Kent C. Dodds, and I'm
joined by my friend Kelly Vaughan. Say hi, Kelly.

**Kelly Vaughn:** Hi Kelly.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Great. So Kelly is an awesome person. She does all kinds of
things, really great person to follow on Twitter, especially if you enjoy
laughter. Kelly, if you could just introduce yourself a little bit so we get to
know you and then we can jump into our chat today.

**Kelly Vaughn:** Yeah, so I am Kelly Vaughn. I live in Atlanta, Georgia, with
my husband. Most of my time is spent running a company called The Tap Room. It's
a marketing agency specializing in Shopify. When I'm not doing that I am
probably recording a podcast or running my own Shopify store. So I spend a lot
of time mainly in the e-commerce space.

**Kent C. Dodds:** So your Shopify store has gotten a lot of attention on
Twitter recently, a lot of people enjoying the products that you're creating.
I'm actually curious, could you describe what some of those products are, and
then where you came up with the idea to make your own Shopify store?

**Kelly Vaughn:** So it's all development merch you didn't know you needed,
that's what I like to call it. It's all a print on demand service, and the whole
reason why I created the store was because I wanted to learn more about what's
called Headless Commerce. We do a lot in the Shopify space in my business and
Headless Commerce, in the Shopify realm, basically means that the store's data
is all stored on Shopify. But the front end of the site you're interacting with
is not actually Shopify. So it's connecting the two of those, a different front
end from the backend.  
So I created my own Shopify store just so I can figure out how Headless Commerce
works on my own personal site, which is built on Gatsby. And I decided to
create, I needed some test products so I took one of my tweets that I thought
was funny and I took a screenshot of it and I uploaded it to Printful, which is
the print on demand service that I use, and it generates these stock photos that
you can use to advertise your products. And one of the stock photos was the mug.
It was a mug that I was creating with the git log and it was just surrounded by
donuts and I thought it was hilarious. So I decided to post a picture of it on
Twitter and people started replying saying, "No, seriously, I actually want to
buy this." So I was never actually intending on launching this store. I just
wanted to see how it would work and I ended up opening it up to an actual store
and it's been way more successful than I was expecting.

**Kent C. Dodds:** So you have way more products now, how many products do you
have right now?

**Kelly Vaughn:** That's a good question. I think I'm nearing at least 50 and I
have a long list of ideas that I want to keep on creating products. But a lot of
these things come off just like I'm typing up an email and my most recent
sticker that I created as just one that says, "Per my last email", because I had
just typed that in an email. I was like, "Oh, that needs to be a sticker." It's
always just like they just randomly come up in my head.

**Kent C. Dodds:** And you're using Printful for all of this stuff? One thing I
would love to make my own products and stuff, but I don't want to deal with the
logistics nightmare that I feel like would be involved there. So are you
actually creating any of these products and shipping them off or does Printful
do all of that stuff for you?

**Kelly Vaughn:** They do it all for you. That is the beauty of the print on
demand services. I use Printful, I use Printify for some of my items, and I use
teelaunch for the mouse pads.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Very cool. Well, we'll have to look into that. Maybe I'll
make a shirt or something. I don't know.

**Kelly Vaughn:** You should! It's so easy.

**Kent C. Dodds:** It's super cool. Really amazing what we can do with the
technology that we have these days. So Kelly, we were talking about what we
wanted to talk about today and one thing that you are super into is personal
finance. Because you're an entrepreneur, you run your own business and
apparently you're on Shopify store now. Being responsible with your finances is
really important for you and especially with our current generation.  
I'm actually not sure how old you are, but I'm a millennial and I know that lots
of us millennials have grown up in this world of abundance and especially even
the younger generation, lots have grown up in a world of abundance and not
really caring too much for personal finance. Or there are many in the world who
are growing in more impoverished situations who are, literally they hold the
money for as long as they need to pay their bill. And so the idea of managing
personal finances isn't really a thing cause they have none to manage, right? So
what are some of the thoughts that you have around personal finance? Why do you
think that it's important, and why do you feel so strongly about it?

**Kelly Vaughn:** So I am a millennial as well and I think I'm like right in the
middle of the millennial age range, I don't know, I don't remember what it
actually is anymore. I went to college for a long time. I have three degrees and
I had to pay for those three degrees. So I finished grad school with \$55,000 in
student loan debt and that was really daunting. And while I was in grad school,
I ended up struggling financially way more than I was expecting I would. It got
to the point where my sister was helping me make tuition payments so I could
stay in school and I was working. The problem with, kind of side conversation
here, but a lot of graduate programs require internships or field placements,
but they don't pay you for it and you have to pay for the class credits.  
So you're basically paying to work and it takes away from time you can actually
work in general. So I was doing my field placements, I was working a part-time
job and I was freelancing, and I was still struggling to make ends meet. So
after I finished grad school or when I was getting close to finishing grad
school, I was like, I need to change something here because my credit card debt
is racking up. I'm terrified of actually having to pay off these student loans
and I wanted to be in a better financial position where I wasn't going to be
struggling to make ends meet month by month.

**Kent C. Dodds:** So it was a very personal experience for you that deciding it
was kind of imperative for you to learn how to manage the finances. How did you
get control of your personal finances in a way where you felt, not maybe you're
not totally debt free, but you're happy with the direction that you're going
financially?

**Kelly Vaughn:** Yeah, so I have made a lot of changes in my life, not only on
how I'm spending my money, but how I am budgeting my money as well. And
thankfully my husband is also really big on personal finance, so I was able to
learn a lot from him and he kind of help put me on the right path to make a plan
to not only pay off my debt, but begin actually putting away money for
retirement, because at that point I didn't have a full time job, I didn't have
any opportunity for a 401k or anything like that. So I had \$0 saved for
retirement. And that is a scary thought.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah, absolutely. And for lots of people, especially if you
haven't secured one of those high paying tech jobs or whatever, the last thing
you're thinking about is retirement. You're just thinking about, "How am I going
to pay rent this month?" So what would you suggest for people in that scenario?
Should they be thinking about retirement, and if so, how can they manage it when
they're struggling to pay rent?

**Kelly Vaughn:** Yeah, it's definitely going to depend on each person's
individual kind of situation. There is a book, it's called Money Honey, it is by
Rachel Richards. It is written by a millennial for other millennials. She used
to be a financial advisor and went book route instead. And it's a really great
read on basically how you can figure out what it is that your path needs to be
as far as paying down your debt and being able to make your monthly payments for
all your bills that you have and how you can save at the same time. So I think
that book is a really great recommendation.  
It really depends on what your interest rates are on each of your accounts,
where you're paying back debt. I think the most important thing is finding that
opportunity to save at least
$1,000 when it comes to having an emergency fund. I don't have statistics on worldwide stats, but I know the stats for Americans is a little more public, and I think it's two thirds of Americans that would struggle to find $1,000
to pay for an emergency.

**Kent C. Dodds:** That's a significant portion of the American populace.
There's so much money, and value, and wealth, in the world. Why is it that such
a huge amount of people can't manage an unexpected expense like that?

**Kelly Vaughn:** I would say definitely part of that stat, I'm sure, includes
people who are unemployed and, of course, they're going to struggle to make a
\$1,000 purchase just like anybody else. I think there's a lack of education on
personal finance, especially in our generation. When my parents were in school,
they had a curriculum while they were in school to learn how to do things like
balance a checkbook, and we don't use checkbooks anymore. So there's not so much
budget creation or, well, balancing anything really, paying off your credit
card. We don't really talk about that in school. And so it's a lot of either
learning from somebody who already knows how to do it or taking the initiative
to learn yourself. And if you're not really thinking about it, you're not really
going to pursue education in that area.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah, absolutely. This makes me think of my father who is a
CPA, a certified public accountant. He's retired now, but when he was helping
people with their taxes, he would have these doctors come in who brought in a
ton of money and just got used to a lifestyle of spending a ton of money. And
somehow they just, they didn't care about managing their finances and wound up
in serious amounts of debt and just wondering, "Where did all my money go?" It's
not a problem, I guess, that that plagues the wealthy necessarily. It's a
problem that plagues people who have money. There's a conversation that we can
have about people who don't have money, and ways that we can help those people.
But even those who feel like they have their financial needs totally met and
they just decided, "I'm never going to look at my bank statement."

**Kelly Vaughn:** That was dangerous.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah, exactly. It can be a dangerous situation they find
themselves in. And so what would you recommend people do to start getting a
handle on their finances? Let's say that I'm doing okay financially. Every now
and then I have a something that I want or, that I have to pay for that I need
to save up for. And so I'll do that, but I'm not really taking too much care to
think about my finances. What would be some good first steps for somebody in
that situation?

**Kelly Vaughn:** I think the first step is knowing where your money is going.
You have a bank statement and you have credit card statements. Sit down and look
at the last, let's say three months, of your statements and categorize
everything. And whether you want to do it on, you know, pen and paper or you
want to use a service like Mint, or you need a budget, or I go the Google sheets
route. I just manually record each of my purchases on a Google spreadsheet and I
can see exactly how all of my purchases are categorized and just how much money
I'm spending on coffee.

**Kent C. Dodds:** That makes me think of people who complain about buying an
app for a dollar, but then they go off and spend like, how much do you, well,
I'm not going to ask you about your personal finance, but how much do you think
the average person spends on coffee a month?

**Kelly Vaughn:** Let's say this is somebody who works a full time job, so let's
say they're driving to work five days a week, maybe let's say 20 to 25 days out
of the month, and they're stopping at Starbucks, let's say three times a week.
And let's say your drink is
$5, I'm doing a lot of math in my head right now, that'd be $15 a week. That's
about \$60 a month just on coffee.

**Kent C. Dodds:** That's not insignificant, right?

**Kelly Vaughn:** That is not insignificant at all. And that's not even counting
weekends and the other things that can get away from you are especially going
out to eat. You don't really pay so much attention to of what you're spending
when you're constantly eating out. And especially when it's related to after
work celebrations or just grabbing a drink or two with coworkers, or something
like that. That money really adds up. And I know because I did that research and
realized just how much I'm spending.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah, I think that's a wonderful first step for people to
actually start measuring where your money is going because it could be a
shocking realization like, Oh my goodness, I didn't realize, and Oh, maybe
that's why I'm struggling so hard to be able to afford this new laptop that I
really need for my job or, whatever my side gig or whatever it is. And maybe
getting a little bit of insight into where your money's going is a really good
first step on changing behavior. Maybe, you're okay with
$60 a month on coffee, or maybe you're like, Oh, maybe I could, you know, I don't know, drink water or something, drink milk in the morning and then, make coffee at home or whatever it is, so that you can start saving for the things that you want to say for. Like if you took $20
a month and started putting it into some sort of fund of some kind, after a
while it starts to add up there as well.  
And I know that there are some apps and things, I can't remember what the app is
called, but every time you spend money it rounds you up to the next dollar, or
it takes whatever number of cents it would be to get you to the next dollar and
it puts that in a savings account for you that you can't touch or something like
that. It's kind of interesting idea.

**Kelly Vaughn:** I think some banks might do that, too.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Mm-hmm (affirmative), yeah, it's an interesting concept. So,
anyway, being able to visualize and measure where your money is going I think is
a fantastic first step for people wanting to at least just see if maybe you
could make some changes to the way that you're spending your money.

**Kelly Vaughn:** Absolutely.

**Kent C. Dodds:** So what other tips could you give to people who maybe are
struggling to make ends meet right now? Maybe they're in a bootcamp or they're
trying to get their first job, and in the process of doing that they still have
to live. Is there certain kind of debt or financial assistance that is
acceptable? Others that are pretty dangerous that people should be avoiding?
Certain practices that they should change? Maybe should they cancel their cell
phone bill, or what are the types of lifestyle changes that people could make to
give themselves a little bit more financial stability until they start making
money?

**Kelly Vaughn:** I'll preface this by saying that I'm by no means an expert.
I'm a developer, not a financial advisor. So my experience is both anecdotal and
just what I've researched and read about over time. One of the things that that
book Money Honey talks about is there are two ways to have more money. One is to
make more money and the other one is to reduce how much you're spending. Those
are the only two ways that you can do things. Obviously making more money is
great, but that's easier said than done. I mean, you can't just walk in and ask
for a raise and expect to get it, or get a job if you're currently unemployed,
or if you have a family at home you might not have time to be moonlighting as a
freelancer or working on a side project or something like that.  
So making more money is not always going to be the easiest option. So finding
opportunities to reduce your spending is usually where you want to start. And
going through your finances and seeing how you're spending your money is where
you would begin doing that. If you have, let's say a gym membership and you're
not going to the gym, maybe consider canceling the membership. You can watch
workout videos at home if you really wanted to or you can go for a run, the
outdoors are free so that's always an option. Let's see what else is there?

**Kent C. Dodds:** Netflix, as great as it is, you may not. And there are lots
of subscriptions like that. Spotify or YouTube red or whatever these different
things, and maybe you don't need to buy popcorn that time you go to the movie or
maybe you don't even need to go to the movie for a while there, reducing the
costs, like you were saying there.

**Kelly Vaughn:** It's really surprising to sit down and see just how many
things you're subscribed. You never really notice it, especially since all these
things are on auto pay and they're on auto pay for a reason. They know that
people tend to not cancel. I don't remember, I don't remember when I actually
signed up for Netflix. I've just been giving them my money, even when they it
increases by $2 a month, or it increases by $4 a month. I don't even think about
canceling and that is the kind of thing that is something I should be thinking
about. I'm not going to cancel Netflix, I watch The Office too much.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah, I just finished it a little bit ago. Yeah, it's fun.

**Kelly Vaughn:** Good, so it's time to start again.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah, that's right. I actually heard that Netflix might be
canceling or taking The Office off of the platform.

**Kelly Vaughn:** I heard that as well, and I don't want to believe it until it
actually happens.

**Kent C. Dodds:** So reducing your expenditures, what would you say, like what
if I'm struggling to make money at all? So I'm making no money, what are some
ideas, maybe I'm looking for a job, but in the process, side hustles can be
pretty lucrative. So as an entrepreneur yourself, what are some things that
people could do while they're waiting for their product job, or maybe in lieu of
a product job, that could help them to earn the finances so that they can start
caring about personal finance?

**Kelly Vaughn:** The most common ones that I see people talk about doing are
the Ubers, Lyft, Uber Eats. There are sites like Fiverr and Upwork where you can
list tasks that you can do. There's also the site called TaskHusky. When I said
tasks, that's when I thought of it. There were a lot of these various websites
or just like service industry, kind of like gig economy businesses out there
that you can find one that works within your schedule. Some of them don't
require you to be out on the road for example. So you can work from home when
you have 30 minutes available to do something. Of course it's really, it becomes
more difficult when you are raising a family or you have other obligations that
you have to tend to. So that is the hardest part about recommending side hustles
because not everybody has the luxury of additional time to do a side hustle.
That's the hardest part.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah, absolutely. Like some people barely have enough time in
the day to look for a job and then they have to go and take care of a loved one
or children, which I suppose they're loved ones. Hopefully they are. Very good.
So Kelly, as we are kind of coming down to the end of our time here, is there
anything else that we haven't really discussed about personal finance that you'd
really like to make mention of?

**Kelly Vaughn:** The one next step, so we talked about step one being see how
you're spending your money. Step two is make a budget. There are the systems,
the apps we talked about before are things like you need a budget and Mint, they
can do it for you. I know Excel has a template that is a budget where you just
plug in the numbers and it shows you where you're at and how you should allocate
your money and how much of your money is being spent on whatever it is you have
it categorized as. I personally use that one and I use Google sheets to continue
to monitor my expenses as they progress. I go to the store and I immediately
pull up my phone and I have like a little shortcut on my home screen to
immediately plug in that information where it needs to go just so I don't
forget. If you do forget, of course we all have credit cards statements that we
can jump to.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah. And hopefully those are accurate.

**Kelly Vaughn:** Yes, yes.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah, exactly. Very good. I've actually, I'll be honest, I've
been really bad about budgeting the last little while, but when my wife and I
were first married I made this really elaborate Google doc spreadsheet to keep
track of our budget. And it was awesome and it really helped. And one thing that
we did that I just was kind of our idea was this thing we called backward
budgeting. I don't think it's really original, but I think we may have been
inspired by Dave Ramsey's envelope method where you put money in the envelope
and as soon as that money's gone then it's gone. And so the idea was we don't
budget the money that we think we're going to make this month. We instead look
at the money we made last month and that's the money that we have available to
spend this month. And then we allocate that money accordingly, fixed expenses
and then a percentage goes into entertainment and stuff like that, whatever's
left over. And that seemed to work out really well for us.

**Kelly Vaughn:** That's pretty much what I do as well, what my husband and I
do. We have our buckets for, like the envelopes, for this percentage needs to go
into my emergency fund, my home savings, home emergency fund. We just bought a
home nine months ago and we're learning just how expensive homes are. It's a
never ending expense. But it's fun owning a home nonetheless. But also we have
buckets for the things we enjoy doing most. My husband and I like to travel, so
we have a specific envelope for travel fund and once we have enough money to
actually take a trip, then we book the trip. The whole point is having the money
in there before you spend it.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah, absolutely, living within your means and cutting out
the things that, you know, you rack up enough of these subscriptions or you add
enough of these commitments for trips and things, and eventually you're spending
more money than you have and you start hoping that you don't lose your job. Well
of course nobody wants to lose their job, it would be you have nothing to fall
back on if you do, right? And so being cognizant of that and people are saying
we're on our way to a recession. So probably it'd be a good time to start
padding yourself a little bit more to prepare for events like that, that are
totally out of your control.

**Kelly Vaughn:** Yeah. And since you mentioned Dave Ramsey, it actually is
worth plugging. Dave Ramsey's Total Money Makeover as well. He has a book. If
you're in debt and you're just, you're not really sure what steps to take next.
He has a program and a book, which by the way, the book is available at the
library. So consider checking or getting a library card instead of buying books
on Amazon. And it's a really great step-by-step guide of what path you should be
taking next.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Great. Yeah, that's great and I have a link the show notes
for that, too. Cool. So Kelly, it's been a pleasure to chat with you. Our call
to action for people is for your first step on making this improvement to your
life, is to find out where your money has gone the last three months. So however
you want to do that, whether it's a spreadsheet or use Mint.com or whatever you
want to use to kind of categorize your expenses, just go, if you haven't been
keeping track, that's okay. Look at your credit card statements or your bank
statements, and categorize all of your expenses for the last three months. You
will probably be shocked.

**Kelly Vaughn:** Exactly.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Kelly, it's been a pleasure. What's the best way for people
to connect with you online?

**Kelly Vaughn:** You can find me on Twitter at KVLLY. That's probably the best
way to find me online.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Great. All right, Kelly, thank you so much. It was a pleasure
to chat with you and I wish you the best. Good luck everybody else and we'll see
you all later. Bye.

</Transcript>
