---
title: Ken Wheeler Chats With Kent About Going For Challenging Opportunities
slug: ken-wheeler-chats-with-kent-about-going-for-challenging-opportunities
simpleCastId: 7b0b72f5-2329-4994-86ac-f5ac31b2cc7a
description:
  'Ken Wheeler chats with Kent about saying yes to challenging opportunities and
  using them as a chance to rapidly grow.'
season: 2
number: 10
keywords:
  [
    'react',
    'teaching',
    'career',
    'web development',
    'dev',
    'software',
    'education',
    'javascript',
    'mentorship',
  ]
metaImage: './ken-wheeler-card.png'
guestPhoto: './ken-wheeler.png'
---

import Transcript from 'components/podcast/transcript'
import Resources from 'components/podcast/resources'
import Homeworks from 'components/podcast/homeworks'
import Guest from 'components/podcast/guest'
import PhotoKen from './ken-wheeler.png'

Almost every demo Ken has done at a conference was wildly out of his league
technologically. The deadline for the conference pushes him to grow rapidly.
Conference driven development. Elon Musk says, "If it's physically possible,
then we can make it happen." Take stock of the situation and ask yourself what
the reality of it is, is it possible? If so, then you can accomplish it.

It's not possible to take the second step or even the last step unless you've
taken that first step. Finding a simple way to take that first step and just
going for it is critical to becoming the person that you want to be.

Even to this day, Ken still is anxious to get on stage, but it's always awesome
afterward. Some talks go well, and others don't, but even if it didn't go well,
you still went up there and did it. The audience is rooting for you, and despite
what you might think, the majority of them don't know the subject of your talk,
and the few that do still want you to succeed.

<Homeworks>

Write down three things that you've been holding back on. Choose one of those
things and write down the steps that you can take to accomplish that!

</Homeworks>

<div style={{display: 'grid', gridGap: 10, gridTemplateColumns: 'repeat(auto-fill, minmax(300px, 1fr))'}}>

<Resources>

- [Principles in Action](https://www.principles.com)

</Resources>

<Guest name="Ken Wheeler" image={PhotoKen}>

- [Twitter](https://twitter.com/ken_wheeler?ref_src=twsrc%5Egoogle%7Ctwcamp%5Eserp%7Ctwgr%5Eauthor)
- [Github](https://github.com/kenwheeler)
- [Website](http://kenwheeler.github.io/)
- [SoundCloud](https://soundcloud.com/thekenwheeler)

</Guest>

</div>

---

## Transcript

<Transcript>

**Kent C. Dodds:** Hey friends, this is your friend, Kent C.Dodds and I'm joined
by my friend, Sir Kenneth Wheeler. Say hi Ken.

**Ken Wheeler:** Hey, what's up everybody?

**Kent C. Dodds:** Super happy to have Ken here. Ken, everybody should know who
you are and if they don't yet, this is awesome, that they're listening to this,
because they're about to get a load of awesomeness.

**Ken Wheeler:** \[crosstalk 00:00:22\] They're going to get put on.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah. Yeah. Ken, can you introduce yourself a little bit?
Tell us, not just the technical stuff, but whatever you want to say about
yourself.

**Ken Wheeler:** Sure. I'm Ken Wheeler. I am a UI developer at an unnamed hedge
fund.

**Kent C. Dodds:** \[crosstalk 00:00:40\] redacted.

**Ken Wheeler:** Redacted, a hedge fund that I'm not allowed to say the name,
but I digress. I'm an electronic musician, a meat enthusiast, a dad to some
daughters, also a tank top enthusiast. Okay. I think that wraps it up, right?

**Kent C. Dodds:** You're a rapper turned coder, right?

**Ken Wheeler:** That's right. That's right.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Cool stuff. International speaker, open source library
author.

**Ken Wheeler:** \[crosstalk 00:01:16\] I made a couple bad libraries.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah. Yeah. The carousel that you still find on websites all
over the place.

**Ken Wheeler:** That's right. I saw a funny tweet about that the other day;
somebody was complaining about carousels without naming them. Then I was like,
"My apologies sir."

**Kent C. Dodds:** That was my bad. Well, you do plenty of hardware; you got
your crossbow thing too.

**Ken Wheeler:** Yeah. Yeah. So I did Arduinos for a while. Everybody just makes
the light blink, but I always wanted to build something more than that, so I
built the crossbow. With Halloween coming up, I got to come up with a new one,
but last Halloween, I took a plastic skull, drilled it out, put LEDs in its eyes
and made an animatronic moving skull.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Okay, awesome fun.

**Ken Wheeler:** I most recently made a mini controller; an arcade button, mini
controller. That was really fun because, a lot of the time, the Arduino stuff
isn't wildly complicated. It's actually the whole rest of it, your mech
engineering so to say. I got a bunch of enclosures and I tried to make it work
and failed magnificently.

**Kent C. Dodds:** That's the best way to the fail, right? I mean, if you're
going to fail, might as well do it magnificently.

**Ken Wheeler:** I trashed like \$100 worth of enclosures. So I was just like, I
should 3D print this. Right. And then I did and it were worked out swimmingly.
So now I have this 3D printer by me. If you're going to do Arduino and you're
going to build real things, it's the only way to do it.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah. 3D print, all this stuff. I took my kids to a farmer's
market thing and there were these guys there who had 3D-printed a ton of stuff,
and that's what they were selling. They had this box of whistles that they
printed and they were like, "You can have one of these, but your parents might
not want you to. I want you to have these."

**Ken Wheeler:** Do you have a 3D printer?

**Kent C. Dodds:** I don't. I've thought about it. I'm not sure what I'd do with
it though.

**Ken Wheeler:** Remember when we were kids and you'd put a quarter in the doors
at the food store, and you'd get a spider ring or something like that.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah, yeah, yeah.

**Ken Wheeler:** That kind of stuff, you can make your kids and it prints in
like 10 minutes. So I can just print my kids fun little plastic toys; making
rings or articulating sharks or that sort of thing.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Oh that's cool dude. I feel like I find that stuff all over
my house already. It'd just get worse if I got a 3D printer.

**Ken Wheeler:** \[crosstalk 00:04:05\] It's gotten so much worse.

**Kent C. Dodds:** All of those kid's meal toys and stuff. They're just
everywhere.

**Ken Wheeler:** Buckets and buckets of them.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yep. You know, that's parenting. It's good. So if you don't
know Ken already, if you don't follow a Ken on Twitter, you're really missing
out because Ken has some really down to earth stuff to share. Ken you have a
pretty cool backstory of your personal development career and getting involved
in open source and speaking and, doing things that gets yourself a little out of
your shell. Can you tell a little bit about what motivates you to do things that
are uncomfortable?

**Ken Wheeler:** I'm not a big fan of saying no to things. Generally speaking,
if you say yes to things, again, generally speaking, good things happen. It
depends on what things you say yes to.  
But I think that there's nothing wrong with taking opportunities, right? So if
somebody asks you to speak, why wouldn't you? It's an opportunity, right? And
that applies to a lot of things, right? I've been asked to speak and was scared
about it, but anytime you have something like that, where at work, if they're
like, "can we have a volunteer?" I'll do it. If they want you to travel
somewhere, or need somebody to lead the team or something, I'm a big fan of just
going for it. It usually works out.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah. Yeah. Can you tell us an experience, specifically, of
when you were asked to do something at work and you volunteered for it and what
the result was?

**Ken Wheeler:** Yeah, sure. When I, when I came onto the current place, right?
They were like, "Hey, do you want to do some internal trainings?" And I was
like, "absolutely, what? Are you kidding me?" So my first couple of weeks when I
go there, I work remotely, but I work one week from Chicago a month. So I'm in
the office one week a month and for a little while every week that I was in, I
would schedule a training session.  
There were a lot of developers that were coming from different languages. So I
would come in and teach JavaScript basics, React basics, React architecture,
performance, things like that. A lot of the prerequisites for writing
professional JavaScript things like debugging, performance monitoring,
profiling, that sort of thing, and it was really good.  
Surely it had to have been good professionally, but it was also cool cause you
get to know everybody a little more. If you just show up and you're dude at
desk, you might see your immediate peers around you. But once you're in the room
and you're getting people engaged and you're talking to people, they're saying
hi to you in the hall and you just spread out a little. So I think that worked
out pretty well for me thus far.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Cool. Yeah. So I think that kind of reaching outside of your
comfort zone can have some positive impacts on not only your career but also
yourself personally. What would you say to somebody who's like, "Well I'm pretty
happy and content with my life. Going to my desk, doing my job, filling out
those tickets, and then going home watching Netflix and going to bed. They are
struggling to be motivated to do much more than that. What thoughts do you have
around that?

**Ken Wheeler:** If that's what they want to do, then God bless them. Let them
do their thing. Right. But if they have aspirations or ambitions, things that
they'd like to do, but are, apprehensive about it, don't know where to start, or
think it's out of their league. That would be the kind of person that I would
tell to go for it.  
I'll tell you a quick anecdote, right? So almost every demo that I've ever done
at a conference has been wildly out of my league technologically. You're
familiar with conference driven development.

**Kent C. Dodds:** \[crosstalk 00:09:00\] Oh dude, I do that all the time.

**Ken Wheeler:** What I'll do is, I'll take something that I want to do. Then
I'll, pitch it as the talk, right? Not having thought through how this would
become real. Then it forces your hand. That robot crossbow thing, I had no idea,
I knew how to do like Arduino, but I had no idea how to mechanically do that. It
was a lot of trial and error.  
Same thing with that mini controller. Same thing. Very recently I spoke in
London and, you know Auto-Tune?

**Kent C. Dodds:** \[crosstalk 00:09:36\] Yeah, yeah, yeah.

**Ken Wheeler:** So I wanted to put it in the browser.

**Kent C. Dodds:** \[crosstalk 00:09:40\] Nice. Yeah. Cool.

**Ken Wheeler:** And I didn't even know if it was possible. It is. But what you
have to do is you take it and you compile it from seed, a WASM, and then you run
it in an Audio Worklet in the browser. We were getting close there for a minute
and it was not working. I would come down, the first hour or two of every
morning, I'd be down in my office working on it. Like all right, let's see what
we can do today. Dah dah dah. I don't know, seed that well, I don't know WASM
that well, and I surely don't know Audio Worklets that well.  
What I did know is that I wanted Auto-Tune in the browser. I just saw the light
at the end of the tunnel was an amazing demo where I could get up there live and
just totally be T-Pain. I was like, this has to happen. It's too cool for it not
to happen. So I learned enough about each to make it happen and went for it. It
worked out and I can't think of a time that it hasn't worked out. It's gotten
close. The Auto-Tune was probably the closest did it come. I started the
crossbow a little while back. For a little safety buffer but the, the Auto-Tune
that was cutting it close. I almost didn't pull that off.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah. That's one thing, I've told people that the conference
driven development thing is a good idea, but I normally mention that you
probably want to make sure the thing you want to do is possible first. There was
actually, this one time I wanted to speak at an Angular conference in London,
but I couldn't travel.  
So I pitched this idea where I would have somebody who's there in London just
set up a laptop for me on stage. I would start out with an audio feed and then a
video, like my screen feed, and then I'd code up a video feed for myself. So in
Angular, let's code this up together, and then by the end of the talk, you're
actually looking at my face on the webcam through this app that I build. I
wasn't selected, but it seemed like a good idea. I wasn't sure how; I knew
nothing about WebRTC or any of those technologies. But at least, you want to
know that, you're not going to propose how to build a rocket that goes to Mars
in JavaScript.

**Ken Wheeler:** \[crosstalk 00:12:10\] Something that's within vague
possibility.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah, yeah, exactly. But that conference driven development,
I feel like it could be a little anxiety inducing. Did you ever feel that? Were
you ever nervous about? Where did you come up with the courage to start
proposing conference talks and putting yourself into a potentially anxiety
inducing situation?

**Ken Wheeler:** So I think the first one, my first talk, I just got asked to do
and I was like, absolutely, I'll do it. It was a, it was a, it was a local
conference and I was terrified.  
Even to this day, you know, when I'm up there on stage, I always have this
(sigh) yeah, we're really doing this, aren't we? I get up there. I'm like, this
was such a better idea. In retrospect.

**Kent C. Dodds:** \[crosstalk 00:13:05\] It seemed like a good idea at the
time.

**Ken Wheeler:** Then you just go for it. But it's awesome afterwards. Right?
I've had, talks go good and talks go bad, but even if it went poorly, you still
got up there and did it.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Mm-hmm (affirmative).

**Ken Wheeler:** Right. There's something to be said for getting up there and
doing it. Even if it's not the best talk in the world. I don't think I'll ever
give the best talk in the world.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Mm-hmm (affirmative).

**Ken Wheeler:** But you don't need to. You can have it there and do your thing
and sometimes it's good, sometimes it's bad, but the good ones are dope. You
know, somebody like that was an awesome talk and you know, that's a cool
feeling.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah, totally. Often the crowds are big enough that somebody
in the crowd is going to get something out of it, even if it's just you, but
often it's going to be more than just you. It's unlikely that you're talking to
a crowd of people who know everything you're going to talk about. Somebody's
going to enjoy it. At the end of the day, you're the one who is able to say,
yeah, I went up there and talked to people. The 30 people at the meetup or the
300 people at the conference or a thousand people, not all of them can say that
they stood up in front of a group of people and, did something awesome. Right.

**Ken Wheeler:** So what I always tell people is, despite what you might think,
the vast majority of people out there don't know the subject that you're talking
about. People are always afraid that somebody is going to stand up and call BS
on them. Something like that. Which, you know, never happens. Maybe it happened
once or twice and the person got thrown out of the conference, but it never
happens. So most of these people don't know the subject that you're going to
talk about. If they do, they don't know it in the detail that you're about to
explain it. On the off chance that a couple people do, they're going to be
sitting there rooting for you because that's their jam.

**Kent C. Dodds:** \[crosstalk 00:15:13\] Yeah.

**Ken Wheeler:** So you really can't go wrong.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Totally. I think we have in our minds that people want us to
fail for some reason. I'm not sure why we get that feeling, but I think some of
us do sometimes, and I don't know any non jerk in the world who wants you to
fail. Anybody who wants you to fail is just absolutely not nice. Not a nice
person.

**Ken Wheeler:** Even people that I don't particularly care for, I don't wish
them failure, you know?

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah. Yeah. Especially when you're watching their talk. It's
not like I want them to waste my time. Right. You know, I want them to make good
use of my time, so I'm rooting for them to do a good job.

**Ken Wheeler:** Yeah. Let's see what they have to say.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Mm-hmm (affirmative). Totally

**Ken Wheeler:** I have been pleasantly surprised a couple times to be honest.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Mm-hmm (affirmative).Yeah. In yourself too right.

**Ken Wheeler:** Almost every single time.

**Kent C. Dodds:** So it's not just speaking or teaching. What are some other
areas where you feel like people should go for it and they're not? What do you
think is holding people back from just going for whatever it is that they're
trying to?

**Ken Wheeler:** So I think there's two facets to it, right? There's two planes
of, of things that you can do it, at least for the purposes of this
conversation. That's intellectual and creative, right? So for me, I struggle
with the intellectual path, right? Because I could get on a stage and be rapping
or something like that and be fine. If I have to get on a stage and be
intellectually vulnerable, right? If I get on a stage and I'm rapping, right? No
one is like this man is not conjugating his verbs properly, you know?
(laughing)  
But there's a very real fear when you're up there talking about technology that
you're going to be wrong. That there's going to be misinformation, right?
Whether it's a bad idea or if you're flat out technically wrong. right. Which is
terrifying.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Right Mm-hmm (affirmative). Totally. I've been there.

**Ken Wheeler:** Some people are so smart. I remember one time I'm giving this
talk and it was this New York, OCaml meetup and I was talking about building
React Native apps with reason and one of the main, OCaml guys, Yaron Minsky, he
was in the front row. Then the creator of BuckleScript was behind him and then
the Reason team were off to the left. I'm like all right, got to keep this one
honest. So that's like a scary thing.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Even like as a maintainer, I can sort of put myself in their
shoes. When I see somebody give a talk about react-testing-library or something
that I've created and they're going to talk about it. When I'm in that
situation, I'm not sitting there leaning back like show me how good you are. Let
me pick apart your talk. Instead, I'm looking at it and thinking, I hope that my
documentation was good enough and that I did a good job so that this person
could learn well enough that they teach it to everybody.

**Ken Wheeler:** \[crosstalk 00:18:34\] That they don't have anything bad to say
about it.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah. So the maintainers that are, watching your talk they're
still rooting for you to do a good job. They want you to create a resource that
they can hand to somebody else too.

**Ken Wheeler:** So the other thing is the creative stuff, right? Which is
different. When people do creative things a lot of the time that's an expression
of themselves or it's something special to them. So putting that out there and
having that available for criticism is also frightening. Whether it's like
music,

**Kent C. Dodds:** Mm-hmm (affirmative).

**Ken Wheeler:** art or something like that, it's a completely different
thing.  
I might hold something that I've developed creatively a little bit closer than
something that I'm speaking about intellectually, right?

**Kent C. Dodds:** Mm-hmm (affirmative).

**Ken Wheeler:** Like if you wrote a song and then somebody is like this the
worst song ever. I'd be like ouch.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah. Totally.

**Ken Wheeler:** I think a lot of the apprehension comes from those two setups
right there. In both of them you really just got to go for it because there's
not that fictional heckler most of the time. Unless you're on Hacker News where
I can't make any promises.

**Kent C. Dodds:** No. Yeah man. Just stay away from Hacker News. That's advice
that everybody should follow.

**Ken Wheeler:** That's the worst thing in general too. I mean as far as like
doing those things, right? Take for example, you want to write a blog post,
right? A lot of people will see themselves here without a blog post and then
they see themselves in the future, with a written published blog post. But it
seems like there's so much distance between where you are right now and this
lovely finished blog post, my advice there, is to write the first paragraph.
That's the hardest thing, right?  
When I'm making music, right? I want like a very dank beat. Right. it's a little
bit of a journey to a very dank beat. If you're sitting there just lay the drum
track, just get it started. Because you have to, you have to take the smallest
step. Then it's a series of small steps until here you have a blog post. Here
you have a piece of music.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Mm-hmm (affirmative). So when you say, "just go for it". The
best way you find to do that is; you don't have to break the entire task down to
small steps. You think, what's the smallest thing that I can do to get me
started?

**Ken Wheeler:** Yeah. To get it done a little bit easier, this is the thing
that I've been doing lately that I think is, it's pretty cool. Have you ever
heard of the principles book?

**Kent C. Dodds:** No, I don't think so.

**Ken Wheeler:** So this dude, Ray Dalio who runs a hedge fund, not the one that
I'm at, but he has this thing called principles, right? It's a book that people
read and apply to business and what have you. Things like that. But I did have
one main takeaway from that and I've been thinking about a lot lately and
that's; whenever you want to do something, the first thing you should do is take
stock of the reality of the situation. Identify what's real and true about the
situation.  
If I want to put auto tune in the browser, right? First of all, is that
possible? It's vaguely possible. What does it take to get in there? Right? This
is going to need to be WASM. So when you identify what the reality oft he
situation is, rather than just being like, "Oh, this is hard, this is
impossible, this is going to be tough". What does it actually take to do this
right?

**Kent C. Dodds:** Mm-hmm (affirmative).

**Ken Wheeler:** Then you can start taking the smallest steps. For me it was
learning enough C and M scripting to get started.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Mm-hmm (affirmative).

**Ken Wheeler:** I started researching that sort of thing. But that could apply
globally to almost anything. If you want to run a marathon, right? If you're not
a runner, the first thing that you need to do is take a very long walk.

**Kent C. Dodds:** \[crosstalk 00:23:08\] Yeah, yeah, yeah.

**Ken Wheeler:** You know, provided there is no physical disability that would
not let you run a marathon or something.

**Kent C. Dodds:** \[crosstalk 00:23:15\] Sure.

**Ken Wheeler:** But that would also be taking account of the reality of the
situation. Say you were disabled or something, you know you're not going to run
it, but you could, wheelchair later or something. You have to work within your
actual bounds.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah, absolutely. But being self aware of that I think is
important. Whether it's something physical like you mentioned or if it's, you
have this super anxious feeling when you're standing up in front of a group of
people. So if you really want to get there then you can take smaller steps and
stand up in front of a group of, stuffed animals or whatever.

**Ken Wheeler:** Stuffed animals, you could do it for a peer group, you could go
to a local meetup and next thing you know you're at a conference speaking.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Mm-hmm (affirmative).Yeah. And you slowly learn to cope with
that situation or whatever it is. You want to start working out but you feel
uncomfortable with a groups of other people at the gym. So you find ways to
change yourself. I think that's something that I truly believe is that we are
malleable people, we're malleable beings. We can change our nature and it's
something that takes persistence, time and intentional effort.

**Ken Wheeler:** You know? It's funny though about all that; speaking or working
out, right? Speaking never gets not scary and working out never stops being
painful and exhausting. Right? You see people speaking and you're like, "Oh,
they're not scared easy". Somebody running down the road you're like, "wow, this
guy is, its a breeze for this character". Right.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Mm-hmm (affirmative).

**Ken Wheeler:** But no matter what it is, right? It still sucks. But even at
the highest level, it still sucks. You know, they're just, they're just dealing
with it magnificently.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah, yeah. They, they've trained them, their mind and their
body to cope with that so that they can achieve at that level. This reminds me
of another thing; people are sometimes amazed when I tell them that I listen to
podcasts at three times the speed and they're like, "how do you even understand
anything?" I've been listening to podcasts for years and at first it was 1X and
then I found out you could speed it up. So I was like 1.5 then 1.75 and two and,
and eventually you work your way up and you train your brain, but people who are
blind and use screen readers and stuff, they listen to stuff at like 20X.

**Ken Wheeler:** \[crosstalk 00:25:50\] really?

**Kent C. Dodds:** It's crazy. Yeah. No joke man. Like 14 to 20X like yeah, it's
outrageously amazing with what our brains are capable of.  
You can, with small and simple steps, you can get yourself to the place that you
want to be. I've been getting into Elon Musk a lot recently because he's an
inspirational person for me, in some ways. But one thing that he is way into is
he says something that everybody says is impossible like, "We're going to go to
Mars in a few years or we're going to build an electric car that people are
going to buy". People say, "Well, no, you can't do that".  
He says, "well, tell me the physics that tells me that's impossible". There's no
physics that tells you this is impossible. You're afraid, there's FUD or
whatever it is. And so he says, "No, no. If it's physically possible, then we
can make it happen". So you break down these big scary things to the physically
possible thing that you can do or mentally possible or whatever it is, and work
your way to the place that you want to be. But it really comes down to just
going for it at the start. You're not going to get there if you don't go for it.

**Ken Wheeler:** He does that all the time. Right? We're not quite on Mars, but
if you look at some of this stuff, these are definitely precursor technologies
that are requirements for going to Mars.  
You look at Tesla; the battery technology, right? You break it down and take the
first step and cover your prerequisites and suddenly it's achievable.  
I got to know, are you still afraid when you speak?

**Kent C. Dodds:** Oh dude. Are you kidding? Yeah, I've gotten a lot more
comfortable leading up to it, but especially when the speaking comes up close,
the day of especially, or maybe the day before, I start breathing heavier, when
I'm thinking about it and then especially minutes up before I get up there and
I'm seeing people gather or whatever. I feel really, really fight or flight but
I get up there and once I start, once I say, "Hey, my name is Kent C. Dodds and
I'm here to talk about X", you just say your name.

**Ken Wheeler:** \[crosstalk 00:28:20\] Yeah, totally.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Then you're like, okay, I'm good. There have been times
where, even during the talk, I still feel uncomfortable. I've kind of worked my
way out of that mostly, unless things aren't going very well.

**Ken Wheeler:** That's the worst. When you get popped out of your groove, like
there's like an AV issue or something and just try to go like that. Then your
whole momentum was shattered.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah. Yeah. But that's another thing that over time, you
learn to cope with that stuff too. So if there's something that you want to do,
you just go for it in the small step where you get started on the path.  
This reminds me of a, there's a book by Brandon Sanderson called oath bringer,
and in it, this guy, I wonder if it's the first one, but it's the Stormlight
Archive trilogy. But there's this character in there who is asked the question,
"What's the most important step a man can take?" That question is kind of
hanging out there, the whole book. Then toward the end he says the most
important step a man can take as the first step.

**Ken Wheeler:** \[foreign language 00:00:29:46\] True story.

**Kent C. Dodds:** I think that applies to what we're talking about here is.
It's not possible to take the second step or even the last step unless you've
taken that first step. Finding a simple way to take that first step and just
going for it is critical to becoming the person that you want to be.

**Ken Wheeler:** True story.

**Kent C. Dodds:** So cool. We're down on our time here, Ken. It was awesome to
chat with you. Is there anything else that you want to talk about before we wrap
things up?

**Ken Wheeler:** No, dude, it was awesome. Thank you for having me.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Dude. It's a pleasure. I always love chatting with you. I'm
super sad we're not going to actually see each other for, I don't even know how
long you're going to have.

**Ken Wheeler:** You're going to have a little fun at React Rally for me, right?

**Kent C. Dodds:** Yeah. It's going to be a blast. So at the time we were
recording this, React Rally is in two days. This will probably be published in I
don't know, a month, maybe a year or two. But yeah, it was fun. I'm sure.  
So here, just as we wrap up here, here's the homework or the call to action for
everybody listening, where we want you to do something to improve yourself
technically or personally or whatever.  
So here's what we want you to take out a piece of paper and write down three
things you've been holding yourself back from; whether it be fear or just
feeling inadequate or whatever that is. Choose one of those three things that
you've written down and then write down the steps that you can take to
accomplish that. Maybe just write down the first step and then go make that
happen.

**Ken Wheeler:** Go for it.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Go for it. Cool. All right man. Well thanks so much. It's
been a pleasure. Where can people find you online, Ken?

**Ken Wheeler:** You can find me @ santacloud.com forward slash the Ken wheeler.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Boo-yah no, legit people go, listen. Ken's got some sweet
music. I even use Ken's music for my dev tips with Kent series on YouTube. It's
great. So yeah, go listen to Ken stuff.

**Ken Wheeler:** It's Ken_Wheeler on Twitter. But don't open that in front of
kids.

**Kent C. Dodds:** It's not safe for work.

**Ken Wheeler:** That's not safe for life.

**Kent C. Dodds:** Cool. All right. Hey, thanks, Ken. It was awesome. For
everybody else, we'll see y'all later,

**Ken Wheeler:** Later. Alligators.

</Transcript>
